GENEVA 1599
BOOK: Exodus

Exodus 1:1	Now these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt (euery man and his housholde came thither with Iaakob)
Exodus 1:2	Reuben, Simeon, Leui, and Iudah,
Exodus 1:3	Issachar, Zebulun, and Beniamin,
Exodus 1:4	Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
Exodus 1:5	So al the soules, that came out of the loines of Iaakob, were seuentie soules: Ioseph was in Egypt already.
Exodus 1:6	Nowe Ioseph died and all his brethren, and that whole generation.
Exodus 1:7	And the children of Israel brought foorth fruite and encreased in aboundance, and were multiplied, and were exceeding mightie, so that the land was full of them.
Exodus 1:8	Then there rose vp a newe King in Egypt, who knewe not Ioseph.
Exodus 1:9	And he sayde vnto his people, Beholde, the people of the children of Israel are greater and mightier then we.
Exodus 1:10	Come, let vs worke wisely with them, least they multiplie, and it come to passe, that if there be warre, they ioyne them selues also vnto our enemies, and fight against vs, and get them out of the land.
Exodus 1:11	Therefore did they set taskemasters ouer them, to keepe the vnder with burdens: and they built the cities Pithom and Raamses for the treasures of Pharaoh.
Exodus 1:12	But the more they vexed them, the more they multiplied and grewe: therefore they were more grieued against the children of Israel.
Exodus 1:13	Wherefore the Egyptians by crueltie caused the children of Israel to serue.
Exodus 1:14	Thus they made them weary of their liues by sore labour in clay and in bricke, and in al worke in the fielde, with all maner of bondage, which they layde vpon them most cruelly.
Exodus 1:15	Moreouer the King of Egypt commanded ye midwiues of the Ebrewe women, (of which the ones name was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah)
Exodus 1:16	And sayde, When ye doe the office of a midwife to the women of the Ebrewes, and see them on their stooles, if it be a sonne, then yee shall kill him: but if it be a daughter, then let her liue.
Exodus 1:17	Notwithstanding ye midwiues feared God, and did not as the King of Egypt commanded them, but preserued aliue the men children.
Exodus 1:18	Then the King of Egypt called for the midwiues, and sayde vnto them, Why haue yee done thus, and haue preserued aliue the men children?
Exodus 1:19	And the midwiues answered Pharaoh, Because the Ebrewe women are not as the women of Egypt: for they are liuely, and are deliuered yer the midwife come at them.
Exodus 1:20	God therefore prospered the midwiues, and the people multiplied and were very mightie.
Exodus 1:21	And because ye midwiues feared God, therefore he made them houses.
Exodus 1:22	Then Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Euery man childe that is borne, cast yee into the riuer, but reserue euery maide childe aliue.
Exodus 2:1	Then there went a man of the house of Leui, and tooke to wife a daughter of Leui,
Exodus 2:2	And the woman coceiued and bare a sonne: and when she saw that he was faire, she hid him three moneths.
Exodus 2:3	But when she could no longer hide him, she tooke for him an arke made of reede, and daubed it with slime and with pitch, and laide the childe therein, and put it among the bulrushes by the riuers brinke.
Exodus 2:4	Now his sister stood a farre off, to wit what would come of him.
Exodus 2:5	Then ye daughter of Pharaoh came downe to wash her in the riuer, and her maidens walked by the riuers side: and when shee sawe the arke among the bulrushes, she sent her maide to fet it.
Exodus 2:6	Then she opened it, and sawe it was a childe: and beholde, the babe wept: so she had compassion on it, and sayde, This is one of the Ebrewes children.
Exodus 2:7	Then said his sister vnto Pharaohs daughter, Shall I go and cal vnto thee a nurce of the Ebrew women to nurce thee the childe?
Exodus 2:8	And Pharaohs daughter sayde to her, Goe. So the maide went and called the childes mother,
Exodus 2:9	To whome Pharaohs daughter sayde, Take this childe away, and nurce it for me, and I wil reward thee. Then the woman tooke the childe and nurced him.
Exodus 2:10	Nowe the childe grewe, and she brought him vnto Pharaohs daughter, and he was as her sonne, and she called his name Moses, because, said she, I drewe him out of the water.
Exodus 2:11	And in those dayes, when Moses was growen, he went forth vnto his brethren, and looked on their burdens: also he sawe an Egyptian smiting an Ebrewe one of his brethren.
Exodus 2:12	And he looked rounde about, and when he sawe no man, hee slewe the Egyptian, and hid him in the sande.
Exodus 2:13	Againe he came forth the second day, and behold, two Ebrewes stroue: and he said vnto him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellowe?
Exodus 2:14	And hee answered, Who made thee a man of authoritie, and a iudge ouer vs? Thinkest thou to kill mee, as thou killedst the Egyptian? Then Moses feared and sayde, Certainly this thing is knowen.
Exodus 2:15	Now Pharaoh heard this matter, and sought to slay Moses: therefore Moses fled from Pharaoh, and dwelt in the lande of Midian, and hee sate downe by a well.
Exodus 2:16	And the Priest of Midian had seue daughters, which came and drewe water, and filled the troghes, for to water their fathers sheepe.
Exodus 2:17	Then the shepherds came and droue them away: but Moses rose vp and defended them, and watered their sheepe.
Exodus 2:18	And whe they came to Reuel their father, he said, Howe are ye come so soone to day?
Exodus 2:19	And they saide, A man of Egypt deliuered vs from the hand of the shepherdes, and also drew vs water ynough, and watered the sheepe.
Exodus 2:20	Then he saide vnto his daughters, And where is he? why haue ye so left the man? call him that he may eate bread.
Exodus 2:21	And Moses agreed to dwell with the man: who gaue vnto Moses Zipporah his daughter:
Exodus 2:22	And she bare a sonne, whose name he called Gershom: for he said, I haue bene a stranger in a strange lande.
Exodus 2:23	Then in processe of time, the King of Egypt dyed, and the children of Israel sighed for the bondage and cryed: and their crie for the bondage came vp vnto God.
Exodus 2:24	Then God heard their mone, and God remembred his couenant with Abraham, Izhak, and Iaakob.
Exodus 2:25	So God looked vpon the children of Israel, and God had respect vnto them.
Exodus 3:1	When Moses kept the sheepe of Iethro his father in lawe, Priest of Midian, and droue the flocke to the backe side of the desert, and came to the Mountaine of God, Horeb,
Exodus 3:2	Then the Angel of the Lord appeared vnto him in a flame of fire, out of the middes of a bush: and he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed.
Exodus 3:3	Therefore Moses saide, I will turne aside nowe, and see this great sight, why the bush burneth not.
Exodus 3:4	And when the Lord sawe that he turned aside to see, God called vnto him out of the middes of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he answered, I am here.
Exodus 3:5	Then he saide, Come not hither, put thy shooes off thy feete: for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground.
Exodus 3:6	Moreouer he saide, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Izhak, and the God of Iaakob. Then Moses hid his face: for he was afraid to looke vpon God.
Exodus 3:7	Then the Lord said, I haue surely seene the trouble of my people, which are in Egypt, and haue heard their crie, because of their taskemasters: for I knowe their sorowes.
Exodus 3:8	Therefore I am come downe to deliuer them out of the hande of the Egyptians, and to bring them out of that lande into a good lande and a large, into a lande that floweth with milke and honie, euen into the place of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hiuites, and the Iebusites.
Exodus 3:9	And now lo, the crie of the children of Israel is come vnto me, and I haue also seene ye oppression, wherewith the Egyptians oppresse them.
Exodus 3:10	Come now therefore, and I will send thee vnto Pharaoh, that thou maiest bring my people the children of Israel out of Egypt.
Exodus 3:11	But Moses said vnto God, Who am I, that I should go vnto Pharaoh, and that I should bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?
Exodus 3:12	And he answered, Certainely I will be with thee: and this shall be a token vnto thee, that I haue sent thee, After that thou hast brought the people out of Egypt, ye shall serue God vpon this Mountaine.
Exodus 3:13	Then Moses said vnto God, Behold, when I shall come vnto the children of Israel, and shall say vnto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me vnto you: if they say vnto me, What is his Name? what shall I say vnto them?
Exodus 3:14	And God answered Moses, I Am That I Am. Also he said, Thus shalt thou say vnto the children of Israel, I Am hath sent me vnto you.
Exodus 3:15	And God spake further vnto Moses, Thus shalt thou say vnto the children of Israel, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Izhak, and the God of Iaakob hath sent me vnto you: this is my Name for euer, and this is my memoriall vnto all ages.
Exodus 3:16	Go and gather the Elders of Israel together, and thou shalt say vnto the, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, Izhak, and Iaakob appeared vnto me, and said, I haue surely remembred you, and that which is done to you in Egypt.
Exodus 3:17	Therefore I did say, I wil bring you out of the affliction of Egypt vnto the land of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hiuites, and the Iebusites, vnto a lande that floweth with milke and honie.
Exodus 3:18	Then shall they obey thy voyce, and thou and the Elders of Israel shall go vnto the King of Egypt, and say vnto him, The Lord God of the Ebrewes hath met with vs: we pray thee nowe therefore, let vs goe three dayes iourney in the wildernesse, that we may sacrifice vnto the Lord our God.
Exodus 3:19	But I know, that the King of Egypt wil not let you goe, but by strong hande.
Exodus 3:20	Therefore will I stretch out mine hande and smite Egypt with all my wonders, which I will doe in the middes thereof: and after that shall he let you goe.
Exodus 3:21	And I will make this people to be fauoured of the Egyptians: so that when ye go, ye shall not goe emptie.
Exodus 3:22	For euery woman shall aske of her neighbour, and of her that soiourneth in her house, iewels of siluer and iewels of gold and raiment, and ye shall put them on your sonnes, and on your daughters, and shall spoyle the Egyptians.
Exodus 4:1	Then Moses answered, and said, But lo, they will not beleeue me, nor hearken vnto my voyce: for they will say, The Lord hath not appeared vnto thee.
Exodus 4:2	And the Lord said vnto him, What is that in thine hande? And he answered, A rod.
Exodus 4:3	Then said he, Cast it on the ground. So he cast it on the grounde, and it was turned into a serpent: and Moses fled from it.
Exodus 4:4	Againe the Lord saide vnto Moses, Put foorth thine hand, and take it by the tayle. Then he put foorth his hande and caught it, and it was turned into a rod in his hand.
Exodus 4:5	Do this that they may beleeue, that the Lord God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Izhak, and the God of Iaakob hath appeared vnto thee.
Exodus 4:6	And the Lord saide furthermore vnto him, Thrust nowe thine hand into thy bosome. And he thrust his hand into his bosome, and when he tooke it out againe, behold, his hand was leprous as snowe.
Exodus 4:7	Moreouer he said, Put thine hand into thy bosome againe. So he put his hande into his bosome againe, and pluckt it out of his bosome, and behold, it was turned againe as his other flesh.
Exodus 4:8	So shall it be, if they wil not beleeue thee, neither obey the voyce of ye first signe, yet shall they beleeue for the voyce of the seconde signe.
Exodus 4:9	But if they will not yet beleeue these two signes, neither obey vnto thy voyce, then shalt thou take of the water of the riuer, and powre it vpon the drie lande: so the water which thou shalt take out of the riuer, shalbe turned to blood vpon the drie land.
Exodus 4:10	But Moses said vnto the Lord, Oh my Lord, I am not eloquent, neither at any time haue bene, nor yet since thou hast spoken vnto thy seruant: but I am slowe of speach and slowe of tongue.
Exodus 4:11	Then the Lord said vnto him, Who hath giuen the mouth to man? or who hath made the domme, or the deafe, or him that seeth, or the blinde? haue not I the Lord?
Exodus 4:12	Therefore goe nowe, and I will be with thy mouth, and will teach thee what thou shalt say.
Exodus 4:13	But he saide, Oh my Lord, sende, I pray thee, by the hande of him, whome thou shouldest sende.
Exodus 4:14	Then the Lord was verie angrie with Moses, and said, Doe not I know Aaron thy brother the Leuite, that he himselfe shall speake? for loe, he commeth also foorth to meete thee, and when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart.
Exodus 4:15	Therefore thou shalt speake vnto him, and put the wordes in his mouth, and I will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye ought to doe.
Exodus 4:16	And he shall be thy spokesman vnto the people: and he shall be, euen he shall be as thy mouth, and thou shalt be to him as God.
Exodus 4:17	Moreouer thou shalt take this rod in thine hand, wherewith thou shalt do miracles.
Exodus 4:18	Therefore Moses went and returned to Iethro his father in lawe, and said vnto him, I pray thee, let me goe, and returne to my brethren, which are in Egypt, and see whether they be yet aliue. Then Iethro said to Moses, Go in peace.
Exodus 4:19	(For the Lord had said vnto Moses in Midian, Goe, returne to Egypt: for they are all dead which went about to kill thee)
Exodus 4:20	Then Moses tooke his wife, and his sonnes, and put them on an asse, and returned towarde the lande of Egypt, and Moses tooke the rod of God in his hand.
Exodus 4:21	And the Lord saide vnto Moses, When thou art entred and come into Egypt againe, see that thou doe all the wonders before Pharaoh, which I haue put in thine hand: but I will harden his heart, and he shall not let the people goe.
Exodus 4:22	Then thou shalt say to Pharaoh, Thus saith the Lord, Israel is my sonne, euen my first borne.
Exodus 4:23	Wherefore I say to thee, Let my sonne go, that he may serue me: if thou refuse to let him goe, beholde, I will slay thy sonne, euen thy first borne.
Exodus 4:24	And as he was by the waye in the ynne, the Lord met him, and would haue killed him.
Exodus 4:25	Then Zipporah tooke a sharpe knife, and cut away the foreskinne of her sonne, and cast it at his feete, and said, Thou art indeede a bloody husband vnto me.
Exodus 4:26	So he departed from him. Then she saide, O bloodie husband (because of the circumcision)
Exodus 4:27	Then the Lord saide vnto Aaron, Goe meete Moses in the wildernesse. And he went and mette him in the Mount of God, and kissed him.
Exodus 4:28	Then Moses tolde Aaron all the wordes of the Lord, who had sent him, and all the signes wherewith he had charged him.
Exodus 4:29	So went Moses and Aaron, and gathered all the Elders of the children of Israel.
Exodus 4:30	And Aaron told all the wordes, which the Lord had spoken vnto Moses, and he did the miracles in the sight of the people,
Exodus 4:31	And the people beleeued, and when they heard that the Lord had visited the children of Israel, and had looked vpon their tribulation, they bowed downe, and worshipped.
Exodus 5:1	Then afterwarde Moses and Aaron went and said to Pharaoh, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Let my people go, that they may celebrate a feast vnto me in the wildernesse.
Exodus 5:2	And Pharaoh saide, Who is the Lord, that I should heare his voyce, and let Israel go? I knowe not the Lord, neither will I let Israel goe.
Exodus 5:3	And they saide, We worship the God of the Ebrewes: we pray thee, let vs goe three daies iourney in the desert, and sacrifice vnto the Lord our God, least he bring vpon vs the pestilence or sword.
Exodus 5:4	Then saide the King of Egypt vnto them, Moses and Aaron, why cause ye the people to cease from their workes? get you to your burdens.
Exodus 5:5	Pharaoh saide furthermore, Behold, much people is nowe in the lande, and ye make them leaue their burdens.
Exodus 5:6	Therefore Pharaoh gaue commandement the same day vnto the taskemasters of the people, and to their officers, saying,
Exodus 5:7	Ye shall giue the people no more strawe, to make bricke (as in time past) but let them goe and gather them strawe them selues:
Exodus 5:8	Notwithstanding lay vpon them the nober of bricke, which they made in time past, diminish nothing thereof: for they be idle, therefore they crie, saying, Let vs go to offer sacrifice vnto our God.
Exodus 5:9	Lay more worke vpon the men, and cause them to do it, and let the not regard vaine words.
Exodus 5:10	Then went the taskemasters of the people and their officers out, and tolde the people, saying, Thus saith Pharaoh, I will giue you no more strawe.
Exodus 5:11	Goe your selues, get you strawe where yee can finde it, yet shall nothing of your labour bee diminished.
Exodus 5:12	Then were the people scattered abroade throughout all the land of Egypt, for to gather stubble in steade of strawe.
Exodus 5:13	And the taskemasters hasted them, saying, Finish your dayes worke euery dayes taske, as ye did when ye had strawe.
Exodus 5:14	And the officers of the children of Israel, which Pharaohs taskemasters had set ouer them, were beaten, and demanded, Wherefore haue ye not fulfilled your taske in making bricke yesterday and to daye, as in times past?
Exodus 5:15	Then the officers of the children of Israel came, and cryed vnto Pharaoh, saying, Wherfore dealest thou thus with thy seruants?
Exodus 5:16	There is no strawe giuen to thy seruantes, and they say vnto vs, Make bricke: and loe, thy seruants are beaten, and thy people is blamed.
Exodus 5:17	But he said, Ye are to much idle: therfore ye say, Let vs goe to offer sacrifice to the Lord.
Exodus 5:18	Goe therefore nowe and worke: for there shall no strawe be giuen you, yet shall yee deliuer the whole tale of bricke.
Exodus 5:19	Then the officers of the children of Israel sawe them selues in an euill case, because it was saide, Ye shall diminish nothing of your bricke, nor of euery dayes taske.
Exodus 5:20	And they met Moses and Aaron, which stood in their way as they came out from Pharaoh,
Exodus 5:21	To whom they said, The Lord looke vpon you and iudge: for yee haue made our sauour to stinke before Pharaoh and before his seruants, in that ye haue put a sword in their hand to slay vs.
Exodus 5:22	Wherefore Moses returned to the Lord, and saide, Lord, why hast thou afflicted this people? wherefore hast thou thus sent me?
Exodus 5:23	For since I came to Pharaoh to speake in thy Name, he hath vexed this people, and yet thou hast not deliuered thy people.
Exodus 6:1	Then the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Nowe shalt thou see, what I will doe vnto Pharaoh: for by a strong hand shall he let them goe, and euen be constrained to driue them out of his land.
Exodus 6:2	Moreouer God spake vnto Moses, and sayd vnto him, I am the Lord,
Exodus 6:3	And I appeared vnto Abraham, to Izhak, and to Iaakob by the Name of Almightie God: but by my Name Iehouah was I not knowen vnto the.
Exodus 6:4	Furthermore as I made my couenant with them to giue them ye land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherein they were strangers:
Exodus 6:5	So I haue also hearde the groning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keepe in bondage, and haue remembred my couenant.
Exodus 6:6	Wherefore say thou vnto the children of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from the burdens of the Egyptians, and will deliuer you out of their bondage, and will redeeme you in a stretched out arme, and in great iudgements.
Exodus 6:7	Also I will take you for my people, and will be your God: then ye shall knowe that I the Lord your God bring you out from the burdens of the Egyptians.
Exodus 6:8	And I will bring you into the land which I sware that I woulde giue to Abraham, to Izhak, and to Iaakob, and I will giue it vnto you for a possession: I am the Lord.
Exodus 6:9	So Moses told the children of Israel thus: but they hearkened not vnto Moses, for anguish of spirit and for cruel bondage.
Exodus 6:10	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 6:11	Go speak to Pharaoh King of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel goe out of his land.
Exodus 6:12	But Moses spake before the Lord, saying, Beholde, the children of Israel hearken not vnto me, howe then shall Pharaoh heare mee, which am of vncircumcised lippes?
Exodus 6:13	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses and vnto Aaron, and charged them to goe to the children of Israel and to Pharaoh King of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 6:14	These bee the heades of their fathers houses: the sonnes of Reuben the first borne of Israel are Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi: these are ye families of Reuben.
Exodus 6:15	Also the sonnes of Simeon: Iemuel and Iamin, and Ohad, and Iachin, and Zoar, and Shaul the sonne of a Canaanitish woman: these are the families of Simeon.
Exodus 6:16	These also are the names of the sonnes of Leui in their generations: Gershon and Kohath and Merari (and the yeres of the life of Leui were an hundreth thirtie and seuen yere)
Exodus 6:17	The sonnes of Gershon were Libni and Shimi by their families.
Exodus 6:18	And the sonnes of Kohath, Amram and Izhar, and Hebron, and Vzziel. (and Kohath liued an hundreth thirtie and three yeere)
Exodus 6:19	Also the sonnes of Merari were Mahali and Mushi: these are ye families of Leui by their kinreds.
Exodus 6:20	And Amram tooke Iochebed his fathers sister to his wife, and shee bare him Aaron and Moses (and Amram liued an hundreth thirtie and seuen yeere)
Exodus 6:21	Also the sonnes of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
Exodus 6:22	And the sonnes of Vzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri.
Exodus 6:23	And Aaron tooke Elisheba daughter of Amminadab, sister of Nahashon to his wife, which bare him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
Exodus 6:24	Also the sonnes of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: these are the families of the Korhites.
Exodus 6:25	And Eleazar Aarons sonne tooke him one of the daughters of Putiel to his wife, which bare him Phinehas: these are the principall fathers of the Leuites throughout their families.
Exodus 6:26	These are Aaron and Moses to whom the Lord said, Bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt, according to their armies.
Exodus 6:27	These are that Moses and Aaron, which spake to Pharaoh King of Egypt, that they might bring the children of Israel out of Egypt.
Exodus 6:28	And at that time when the Lord spake vnto Moses in the land of Egypt,
Exodus 6:29	When the Lord, I say, spake vnto Moses, saying, I am the Lord, speake thou vnto Pharaoh the King of Egypt all that I say vnto thee,
Exodus 6:30	Then Moses said before the Lord, Behold, I am of vncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh heare me?
Exodus 7:1	Then the Lord saide to Moses, Behold, I haue made thee Pharaohs God, and Aaron thy brother shall be thy Prophet.
Exodus 7:2	Thou shalt speake all that I commanded thee: and Aaron thy brother shall speake vnto Pharaoh, that he suffer the children of Israel to go out of his land.
Exodus 7:3	But I will harden Pharaohs heart, and multiplie my miracles and my wonders in the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 7:4	And Pharaoh shall not hearken vnto you, that I may lay mine hand vpon Egypt, and bring out myne armies, euen my people, the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt, by great iudgements.
Exodus 7:5	Then the Egyptians shall knowe that I am the Lord, when I stretch foorth mine hand vpon Egypt, and bring out the children of Israel from among them.
Exodus 7:6	So Moses and Aaron did as the Lord commanded them, euen so did they.
Exodus 7:7	(Nowe Moses was foure score yeere olde, and Aaron foure score and three, when they spake vnto Pharaoh)
Exodus 7:8	And the Lord had spoken vnto Moses and Aaron, saying,
Exodus 7:9	If Pharaoh speake vnto you, saying, Shewe a miracle for you, then thou shalt say vnto Aaron, Take thy rod, and cast it before Pharaoh, and it shalbe turned into a serpent.
Exodus 7:10	Then went Moses and Aaron vnto Pharaoh, and did euen as the Lord had commanded: and Aaron cast forth his rod before Pharaoh and before his seruants, and it was turned into a serpent.
Exodus 7:11	Then Pharaoh called also for the wise men and sorcerers: and those charmers also of Egypt did in like maner with their enchantmens,
Exodus 7:12	For they cast downe euery man his rod, and they were turned into serpents: but Aarons rodde deuoured their rods.
Exodus 7:13	So Pharaohs heart was hardened, and hee hearkened not to them, as the Lord had saide.
Exodus 7:14	The Lord then saide vnto Moses, Pharaohs heart is obstinate, hee refuseth to let the people goe.
Exodus 7:15	Goe vnto Pharaoh in the morning, (loe, he will come forth vnto the water) and thou shalt stand and meete him by the riuers brinke, and the rod, which was turned into a serpent, shalt thou take in thine hand.
Exodus 7:16	And thou shalt say vnto him, The Lord God of the Ebrewes hath sent me vnto thee, saying, Let my people goe, that they may serue mee in the wildernesse: and beholde, hitherto thou wouldest not heare.
Exodus 7:17	Thus saith the Lord, In this shalt thou know that I am the Lord: behold, I wil smite with the rodde that is in mine hand vpon the water that is in the riuer, and it shalbe turned to blood.
Exodus 7:18	And the fish that is in the riuer shall dye, and the riuer shall stinke, and it shall grieue the Egyptians to drinke of the water of the riuer.
Exodus 7:19	The Lord then spake to Moses, Say vnto Aaron, Take thy rod, and stretch out thine hand ouer the waters of Egypt, ouer their streames, ouer their riuers, and ouer their pondes,, and ouer all pooles of their waters, and they shalbe blood, and there shalbe blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood, and of stone.
Exodus 7:20	So Moses and Aaron did euen as the Lord commanded: and hee lift vp the rodde, and smote the water that was in the riuer in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his seruants: and all the water that was in the riuer, was turned into blood.
Exodus 7:21	And the fish that was in the ryuer dyed, and the riuer stanke: so that the Egyptians could not drinke of the water of the riuer: and there was blood throughout all the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 7:22	And the enchanters of Egypt did likewise with their sorceries: and the heart of Phraoh was hardened: so that he did not hearken vnto them, as the Lord had sayde.
Exodus 7:23	Then Pharaoh returned, and went againe into his house, neither did this yet enter into his heart.
Exodus 7:24	All the Egyptians then digged rounde about the riuer for waters to drinke: for they could not drinke of the water of the riuer.
Exodus 7:25	And this continued fully seuen dayes after the Lord had smitten the riuer.
Exodus 8:1	Afterward the Lord sayde vnto Moses, Goe vnto Pharaoh, and tell him, Thus saith the Lord, Let my people goe, that they may serue me:
Exodus 8:2	And if thou wilt not let them goe, beholde, I will smite all thy countrey with frogges:
Exodus 8:3	And the riuer shall scral ful of frogges, which shall goe vp and come into thine house, and into thy chamber, where thou sleepest, and vpon thy bed, and into the house of thy seruants, and vpon thy people, and into thine ouens, and into thy kneading troughes.
Exodus 8:4	Yea, the frogges shall climbe vp vpon thee, and on thy people, and vpon all thy seruants.
Exodus 8:5	Also the Lord said vnto Moses, Say thou vnto Aaron, Stretch out thine hande with thy rod vpon the streames, vpon the riuers, and vpon the ponds, and cause frogs to come vp vpon the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:6	Then Aaron stretched out his hand vpon the waters of Egypt, and the frogges came vp, and couered the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:7	And the sorcerers did likewise with their sorceries, and brought frogges vp vpon the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:8	Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, Pray ye vnto the Lord, that hee may take away the frogges from mee, and from my people, and I will let the people goe, that they may doe sacrifice vnto the Lord.
Exodus 8:9	And Moses said vnto Pharaoh, Concerning me, euen command when I shall pray for thee, and for thy seruants, and for thy people, to destroy the frogges from thee and from thine houses, that they may remaine in the riuer only.
Exodus 8:10	Then he said, To morowe. And he answered, Be it as thou hast said, that thou maiest know, that there is none like vnto the Lord our God.
Exodus 8:11	So the frogges shall depart from thee, and from thine houses, and from thy seruantes, and from thy people: onely they shall remaine in the riuer.
Exodus 8:12	Then Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh: and Moses cryed vnto the Lord concerning the frogges, which hee had sent vnto Pharaoh.
Exodus 8:13	And the Lord did according to the saying of Moses: so the frogges died in the houses, in the townes, and in the fieldes.
Exodus 8:14	And they gathered the together by heaps, and the land stanke of them.
Exodus 8:15	But when Pharaoh sawe that hee had rest giuen him, he hardened his heart, and hearkened not vnto them, as the Lord had said.
Exodus 8:16	Againe the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Say vnto Aaron, Stretche out the rod, and smite the dust of the earth, that it may bee turned to lyce throughout all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:17	And they did so: for Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod, and smote the dust of the earth: and lyce came vpon man and vpon beast: all the dust of the earth was lyce throughout all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:18	Nowe the enchanters assaied likewise with their enchantments to bring forth lyce, but they could not. So the lyce were vpon man and vpon beast.
Exodus 8:19	Then saide the enchanters vnto Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. But Pharaohs heart remained obstinate, and hee hearkened not vnto them, as the Lord had said.
Exodus 8:20	Moreouer the Lord sayd to Moses, Rise vp earely in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh (lo, hee will come forth vnto the water) and say vnto him, Thus saith the Lord, Let my people go, that they may serue me.
Exodus 8:21	Els, if thou wilt not let my people goe, behold, I will send swarmes of flies both vpon thee, and vpon thy seruants, and vpon thy people, and into thine houses: and the houses of the Egyptians shalbe full of swarmes of flies, and the ground also whereon they are.
Exodus 8:22	But ye land of Goshe, where my people are, wil I cause to be wonderfull in that day, so that no swarmes of flies shalbe there, that thou maiest know that I am the Lord in the middes of the earth.
Exodus 8:23	And I will make a deliuerance of my people from thy people: to morowe shall this miracle be.
Exodus 8:24	And the Lord did so: for there came great swarmes of flies into the house of Pharaoh, and into his seruants houses, so that through all the lande of Egypt, the earth was corrupt by the swarmes of flies.
Exodus 8:25	Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and saide, Goe, doe sacrifice vnto your God in this lande.
Exodus 8:26	But Moses answered, It is not meete to do so: for then we shoulde offer vnto the Lord our God that, which is an abomination vnto the Egyptians. Loe, can we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and they not stone vs?
Exodus 8:27	Let vs go three dayes iourney in the desert, and sacrifice vnto the Lord our God, as he hath commanded vs.
Exodus 8:28	And Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice vnto the Lord your God in the wildernesse: but goe not farre away, pray for me.
Exodus 8:29	And Moses said, Behold, I will go out from thee, and pray vnto the Lord, that the swarmes of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his seruants, and from his people to morowe: but let Pharaoh from hencefoorth deceiue no more, in not suffering the people to sacrifice vnto the Lord.
Exodus 8:30	So Moses went out from Pharaoh and prayed vnto the Lord.
Exodus 8:31	And the Lord did according to the saying of Moses, and the swarmes of flies departed from Pharaoh, from his seruants, and from his people, and there remained not one.
Exodus 8:32	Yet Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, and did not let the people goe.
Exodus 9:1	Then the Lord said vnto Moses, Go to Pharaoh, and tell him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Ebrewes, Let my people go, that they may serue me.
Exodus 9:2	But if thou refuse to let them goe, and wilt yet holde them still,
Exodus 9:3	Beholde, the hande of the Lord is vpon thy flocke which is in the fielde: for vpon the horses, vpon the asses, vpon the camels, vpon the cattell, and vpon the sheepe shalbe a mightie great moraine.
Exodus 9:4	And the Lord shall doe wonderfully betweene the beastes of Israel, and the beastes of Egypt: so that there shall nothing dye of all, that pertaineth to the children of Israel.
Exodus 9:5	And the Lord appointed a time, saying, To morowe the Lord shall finish this thing in this lande.
Exodus 9:6	So the Lord did this thing on the morow, and all the cattel of Egypt dyed: but of the cattell of the children of Israel dyed not one.
Exodus 9:7	Then Pharaoh sent, and beholde, there was not one of the cattell of the Israelites dead: and the heart of Pharaoh was obstinate, and hee did not let the people goe.
Exodus 9:8	And the Lord said to Moses and to Aaron, Take your handfull of ashes of the fornace, and Moses shall sprinkle them towarde the heauen in the sight of Pharaoh,
Exodus 9:9	And they shall be turned to dust in all the land of Egypt: and it shalbe as a scab breaking out into blisters vpon man, and vpon beast, thorow out all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 9:10	Then they tooke ashes of the fornace, and stoode before Pharaoh: and Moses sprinkled them towarde the heauen, and there came a scab breaking out into blisters vpon man, and vpon beast.
Exodus 9:11	And the sorcerers could not stande before Moses, because of the scab: for the scab was vpon the enchanters, and vpon all the Egyptians.
Exodus 9:12	And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not vnto them, as the Lord had said vnto Moses.
Exodus 9:13	Also the Lord said vnto Moses, Rise vp early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh, and tell him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Ebrewes, Let my people goe, that they may serue me.
Exodus 9:14	For I will at this time send all my plagues vpon thine heart, and vpon thy seruants, and vpon thy people, that thou mayest knowe that there is none like me in all the earth.
Exodus 9:15	For nowe I will stretch out mine hande, that I may smite thee and thy people with the pestilence: and thou shalt perish from the earth.
Exodus 9:16	And in deede, for this cause haue I appointed thee, to shewe my power in thee, and to declare my Name throughout all the world.
Exodus 9:17	Yet thou exaltest thy selfe against my people, and lettest them not goe.
Exodus 9:18	Beholde, to morowe this time I will cause to raine a mightie great haile, such as was not in Egypt since the foundation thereof was laid vnto this time.
Exodus 9:19	Send therefore nowe, and gather the cattell, and all that thou hast in the fielde: for vpon all the men, and the beastes, which are found in the field, and not brought home, the haile shall fall vpon them, and they shall die.
Exodus 9:20	Such then as feared the word of the Lord among the seruants of Pharaoh, made his seruants and his cattell flee into the houses:
Exodus 9:21	But such as regarded not the worde of the Lord, left his seruants, and his cattell in the fielde.
Exodus 9:22	And the Lord saide to Moses, Stretche foorth thine hande towarde heauen, that there may be haile in all the land of Egypt, vpon man, and vpon beast, and vpon all the herbes of the fielde in the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 9:23	Then Moses stretched out his rod towarde heauen, and the Lord sent thunder and haile, and lightening vpon the ground: and the Lord caused haile to raine vpon the land of Egypt.
Exodus 9:24	So there was haile, and fire mingled with the haile, so grieuous, as there was none throughout all the lande of Egypt, since it was a nation.
Exodus 9:25	And the haile smote throughout al ye land of Egypt all that was in the fielde, both man and beast: also ye haile smote all the herbes of ye field, and brake to pieces all the trees of the fielde.
Exodus 9:26	Onely in the lande of Goshen (where the children of Israel were) was no haile.
Exodus 9:27	Then Pharaoh sent and called for Moses and Aaron, and said vnto them, I haue now sinned: the Lord is righteous, but I and my people are wicked.
Exodus 9:28	Pray ye vnto the Lord (for it is ynough) that there be no more mightie thunders and haile, and I will let you goe, and yee shall tarie no longer.
Exodus 9:29	Then Moses saide vnto him, Assoone as I am out of the citie, I will spreade mine hands vnto the Lord, and the thunder shall cease, neither shall there be any more haile, that thou mayest knowe that the earth is the Lordes.
Exodus 9:30	As for thee and thy seruants, I knowe afore I pray ye will feare before the face of the Lord God.
Exodus 9:31	(And the flaxe, and the barley were smitten: for the barley was eared, and the flaxe was bolled.
Exodus 9:32	But the wheat and the rye were not smitten, for they were hid in the grounde)
Exodus 9:33	Then Moses went out of the citie from Pharaoh, and spred his hands to the Lord, and the thunder and the haile ceased, neither rained it vpon the earth.
Exodus 9:34	And when Pharaoh sawe that the raine and the haile and the thunder were ceased, hee sinned againe, and hardened his heart, both he, and his seruants.
Exodus 9:35	So the heart of Pharaoh was hardened: neither would he let the children of Israel goe, as the Lord had said by Moses.
Exodus 10:1	Againe the Lord saide vnto Moses, Goe to Pharaoh: for I haue hardened his heart, and the heart of his seruants, that I might worke these my miracles in the middes of his realme,
Exodus 10:2	And that thou maist declare in the eares of thy sonne, and of thy sonnes sonne, what things I haue done in Egypt, and my miracles, which I haue done among them: that ye may knowe that I am the Lord.
Exodus 10:3	Then came Moses and Aaron vnto Pharaoh, and they said vnto him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Ebrewes, Howe long wilt thou refuse to humble thy selfe before me? Let my people goe, that they may serue me.
Exodus 10:4	But if thou refuse to let my people go, beholde, to morowe will I bring grashoppers into thy coastes.
Exodus 10:5	And they shall couer the face of the earth, that a man can not see the earth: and they shall eate the residue which remaineth vnto you, and hath escaped from the haile: and they shall eate all your trees that bud in the fielde.
Exodus 10:6	And they shall fil thine houses, and all thy seruants houses, and the houses of all the Egyptians, as neither thy fathers, nor thy fathers fathers haue seene, since the time they were vpon the earth vnto this day. So he returned, and went out from Pharaoh.
Exodus 10:7	Then Pharaohs seruants saide vnto him, How long shall he be an offence vnto vs? let the men go, that they may serue the Lord their God: wilt thou first knowe that Egypt is destroyed?
Exodus 10:8	So Moses and Aaron were brought againe vnto Pharaoh, and he saide vnto them, Goe, serue the Lord your God, but who are they that shall goe?
Exodus 10:9	And Moses answered, We will go with our yong and with our olde, with our sonnes and with our daughters, with our sheepe and with our cattell will we goe: for we must celebrate a feast vnto the Lord.
Exodus 10:10	And he said vnto them, Let the Lord so be with you, as I will let you goe and your children: beholde, for euill is before your face.
Exodus 10:11	It shall not be so: nowe goe ye that are men, and serue the Lord: for that was your desire. Then they were thrust out from Pharaohs presence.
Exodus 10:12	After, the Lord said vnto Moses, Stretch out thine hande vpon the lande of Egypt for the grashoppers, that they may come vpon the lande of Egypt, and eate all the herbes of the land, euen all that the haile hath left.
Exodus 10:13	Then Moses stretched foorth his rod vpon the lande of Egypt: and the Lord brought an East winde vpon the land all that day, and al that night: and in the morning the East wind brought the grashoppers.
Exodus 10:14	So the grashoppers went vp vpon all the land of Egypt, and remained in all quarters of Egypt: so grieuous Grashoppers, like to these were neuer before, neither after them shalbe such.
Exodus 10:15	For they couered all the face of the earth, so that the lande was darke: and they did eate all the herbes of the lande, and all the fruites of the trees, which the haile had left, so that there was no greene thing left vpon the trees, nor among the herbes of the fielde throughout all the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 10:16	Therefore Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste, and sayde, I haue sinned against the Lord your God, and against you.
Exodus 10:17	And nowe forgiue mee my sinne onely this once, and pray vnto the Lord your God, that hee may take away from me this death onely.
Exodus 10:18	Moses then went out from Pharaoh, and prayed vnto the Lord.
Exodus 10:19	And the Lord turned a mightie strong West winde, and tooke away the grashoppers, and violently cast them into the red Sea, so that there remained not one grashopper in all the coast of Egypt.
Exodus 10:20	But the Lord hardened Pharaohs heart, and hee did not let the children of Israel goe.
Exodus 10:21	Againe ye Lord said vnto Moses, Stretch out thine hand toward heauen, that there may be vpon the lande of Egypt darkenesse, euen darkenesse that may be felt.
Exodus 10:22	Then Moses stretched forth his hande towarde heauen, and there was a blacke darkenesse in all the land of Egypt three daies.
Exodus 10:23	No man saw an other, neither rose vp from ye place where he was for three dayes: but all the children of Israel had light where they dwelt.
Exodus 10:24	The Pharaoh called for Moses and said, Go, serue the Lord: onely your sheepe and your cattel shall abide, and your children shall go with you.
Exodus 10:25	And Moses sayd, Thou must giue vs also sacrifices, and burnt offrings that wee may doe sacrifice vnto the Lord our God.
Exodus 10:26	Therefore our cattell also shall go with vs: there shall not an hoofe bee left, for thereof must we take to serue the Lord our God: neither doe wee knowe howe we shall serue the Lord, vntill we come thither.
Exodus 10:27	(But the Lord hardened Pharaohs heart, and he would not let them goe)
Exodus 10:28	And Pharaoh sayde vnto him, Get thee from mee: looke thou see my face no more: for whensoeuer thou commest in my sight, thou shalt dye.
Exodus 10:29	Then Moses said, Thou hast said well: from henceforth will I see thy face no more.
Exodus 11:1	Now the Lord had saide vnto Moses, yet will I bring one plague more vpon Pharaoh, and vpon Egypt: after that, he will let you go hence: when he letteth you goe, he shall at once chase you hence.
Exodus 11:2	Speake thou nowe to the people, that euery man require of his neighbour, and euery woman of her neighbour iewels of siluer and iewels of gold.
Exodus 11:3	And the Lord gaue the people fauour in the sight of the Egyptians: also Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaohs seruantes, and in the sight of the people.)
Exodus 11:4	Also Moses sayde, Thus sayth the Lord, About midnight will I goe out into the middes of Egypt.
Exodus 11:5	And all the first borne in the lande of Egypt shall die, from the first borne of Pharaoh that sitteth on his throne, vnto the first borne of the maide seruant, that is at the mille, and all the first borne of beastes.
Exodus 11:6	Then there shalbe a great crie throughout all the land of Egypt, such as was neuer none like, nor shalbe.
Exodus 11:7	But against none of ye children of Israel shall a dogge moue his tongue, neyther against man nor beast, that ye may knowe that the Lord putteth a difference betweene the Egyptians and Israel.
Exodus 11:8	And all these thy seruants shall come downe vnto me, and fal before me, saying, Get thee out, and all the people that are at thy feete, and after this will I depart. So he went out from Pharaoh very angry.
Exodus 11:9	And the Lord saide vnto Moses, Pharaoh shall not heare you, that my wonders may bee multiplied in the land of Egypt.
Exodus 11:10	So Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh: but the Lord hardened Pharaohs heart, and he suffred not the children of Israel to goe out of his lande.
Exodus 12:1	Then the Lord spake to Moses and to Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,
Exodus 12:2	This moneth shalbe vnto you the beginning of moneths: it shalbe to you the first moneth of the yere.
Exodus 12:3	Speake ye vnto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth of this moneth let euery man take vnto him a lambe, according to the house of the fathers, a lambe for an house.
Exodus 12:4	And if the housholde be too litle for the lambe, he shall take his neighbour, which is next vnto his house, according to the nomber of the persons: euery one of you, according to his eating shall make your count for the lambes,
Exodus 12:5	Your lambe shalbe without blemish, a male of a yeere olde: ye shall take it of the lambes, or of the kiddes.
Exodus 12:6	And yee shall keepe it vntill the fourteenth day of this moneth: then al the multitude of the Congregation of Israel shall kill it at euen.
Exodus 12:7	After, they shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two postes, and on the vpper doore post of the houses where they shall eate it.
Exodus 12:8	And they shall eate the flesh the same night, roste with fire, and vnleauened bread: with sowre herbes they shall eate it.
Exodus 12:9	Eate not thereof rawe, boyled nor sodden in water, but rost with fire, both his head, his feete, and his purtenance.
Exodus 12:10	And ye shall reserue nothing of it vnto the morning: but that, which remaineth of it vnto the morowe, shall ye burne with fire.
Exodus 12:11	And thus shall yee eate it, Your loynes girded, your shoes on your feete, and your staues in your handes, and yee shall eate it in haste: for it is the Lords Passeouer.
Exodus 12:12	For I will passe through the lande of Egypt the same night, and will smite all the first borne in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and I will execute iudgement vpon all the gods of Egypt. I am the Lord.
Exodus 12:13	And the blood shalbe a token for you vpon the houses where ye are: so when I see the blood, I will passe ouer you, and the plague shall not be vpon you to destruction, when I smite the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 12:14	And this day shalbe vnto you a remembrance: and ye shall keepe it an holie feast vnto the Lord, throughout your generations: yee shall keepe it holie by an ordinance for euer.
Exodus 12:15	Seuen daies shall ye eat vnleauened bread, and in any case ye shall put away leauen the first day out of your houses: for whosoeuer eateth leauened bread from the first daie vntill the seuenth day, that person shalbe cut off from Israel.
Exodus 12:16	And in the first day shalbe an holie assemblie: also in the seuenth day shalbe an holy assemblie vnto you: no worke shalbe done in them, saue about that which euery man must eate: that onely may ye do.
Exodus 12:17	Ye shall keepe also the feast of vnleauened bread: for that same daye I will bring your armies out of the lande of Egypt: therefore ye shall obserue this day, throughout your posteritie, by an ordinance for euer.
Exodus 12:18	In the first moneth and the fourteenth day of the moneth at euen, yee shall eate vnleauened bread vnto the one and twentieth day of the moneth at euen.
Exodus 12:19	Seuen daies shall no leauen be founde in your houses: for whosoeuer eateth leauened bread, that person shalbe cut off from the Congregation of Israel: whether he bee a stranger, or borne in the land.
Exodus 12:20	Ye shall eate no leauened bread: but in all your habitations shall ye eate vnleauened bread.
Exodus 12:21	Then Moses called all the Elders of Israel, and saide vnto them, Choose out and take you for euerie of your housholdes a lambe, and kill the Passeouer.
Exodus 12:22	And take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in the basen, and strike the lintell, and the doore cheekes with the blood that is in the basen, and let none of you goe out at the doore of his house, vntill the morning.
Exodus 12:23	For the Lord will passe by to smite the Egyptians: and when he seeth the blood vpon the lintel and on the two doore cheekes, the Lord wil passe ouer the doore, and wil not suffer the destroyer to come into your houses to plague you.
Exodus 12:24	Therefore shall ye obserue this thing as an ordinance both for thee and thy sonnes for euer.
Exodus 12:25	And when ye shall come into the land, which the Lord will giue you as hee hath promised, then ye shall keepe this seruice.
Exodus 12:26	And when your children aske you, What seruice is this ye keepe?
Exodus 12:27	Then ye shall saye, It is the sacrifice of the Lordes Passeouer, which passed ouer the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians, and preserued our houses. Then the people bowed them selues, and worshipped.
Exodus 12:28	So the children of Israel went, and did as the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron: so did they.
Exodus 12:29	Nowe at midnight, the Lord smote all the first borne in the lande of Egypt, from the first borne of Pharaoh that sate on his throne, vnto the first borne of the captiue that was in prison, and all the first borne of beastes.
Exodus 12:30	And Pharaoh rose vp in the night, he, and all his seruants and all the Egyptians: and there was a great crye in Egypt: for there was no house where there was not one dead.
Exodus 12:31	And hee called to Moses and to Aaron by night, and saide, Rise vp, get you out from among my people, both yee, and the children of Israel, and goe serue the Lord as ye haue sayde.
Exodus 12:32	Take also your sheepe and your cattell as yee haue sayde, and depart, and blesse me also.
Exodus 12:33	And the Egyptians did force the people, because they would send them out of the land in haste: for they said, We die all.
Exodus 12:34	Therfore the people tooke their dough before it was leauened, euen their dough bound in clothes vpon their shoulders.
Exodus 12:35	And the children of Israel did according to the saying of Moses, and they asked of ye Egyptians iewels of siluer and iewels of gold, and raiment.
Exodus 12:36	And the Lord gaue the people fauour in the sight of the Egyptians: and they graunted their request: so they spoyled the Egyptians.
Exodus 12:37	Then the children of Israel tooke their iourney from Rameses to Succoth about sixe hundreth thousand men of foote, beside children.
Exodus 12:38	And a great multitude of sundrie sortes of people went out with them, and sheepe, and beeues, and cattel in great abundance.
Exodus 12:39	And they baked the dough which they brought out of Egypt, and made vnleauened cakes: for it was not leauened, because they were thrust out of Egypt, neither coulde they tarie, nor yet prepare themselues vitailes.
Exodus 12:40	So the dwelling of the children of Israel, while they dwelled in Egypt, was foure hundreth and thirtie yeres.
Exodus 12:41	And when the foure hundreth and thirtie yeeres were expired, euen the selfe same day departed all the hostes of the Lord out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 12:42	It is a night to be kept holie to the Lord, because he brought them out of the lande of Egypt: this is that night of the Lord, which all the children of Israel must keepe throughout their generations.
Exodus 12:43	Also the Lord said vnto Moses and Aaron, This is the Lawe of the Passeouer: no stranger shall eate thereof.
Exodus 12:44	But euerie seruant that is bought for money, when thou hast circumcised him, then shall he eat thereof.
Exodus 12:45	A stranger or an hyred seruant shall not eat thereof.
Exodus 12:46	In one house shall it bee eaten: thou shalt carie none of ye flesh out of the house, neither shall ye breake a bone thereof.
Exodus 12:47	All the Congregation of Israel shall obserue it.
Exodus 12:48	But if a stranger dwell with thee, and will obserue the Passeouer of the Lord, let him circumcise all the males, that belong vnto him, and then let him come and obserue it, and he shall be as one that is borne in the land: for none vncircumcised person shall eate thereof.
Exodus 12:49	One lawe shalbe to him that is borne in the land, and to the stranger that dwelleth among you.
Exodus 12:50	Then all the children of Israel did as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron: so did they.
Exodus 12:51	And the selfe same day did the Lord bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.
Exodus 13:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 13:2	Sanctifie vnto me all the first borne: that is, euery one that first openeth the wombe among the children of Israel, as well of man as of beast: for it is mine.
Exodus 13:3	Then Moses sayd vnto the people, Remember this day in the which ye came out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage: for by a mightie hande the Lord brought you out from thence: therefore no leauened bread shall bee eaten.
Exodus 13:4	This day come yee out in the moneth of Abib.
Exodus 13:5	Now when the Lord hath brought thee into the land of the Canaanites, and Hittites, and Amorites, and Hiuites, and Iebusites (which he sware vnto thy fathers, that he woulde giue thee, a land flowing with milke and honie) then thou shalt keepe this seruice in this moneth.
Exodus 13:6	Seuen dayes shalt thou eate vnleauened bread, and the seuenth day shall be the feast of the Lord.
Exodus 13:7	Vnleauened bread shall bee eaten seuen dayes, and there shall no leauened bread be seene with thee, nor yet leauen be seene with thee in all thy quarters.
Exodus 13:8	And thou shalt shew thy sonne in that day, saying, This is done, because of that which the Lord did vnto me, when I came out of Egypt.
Exodus 13:9	And it shalbe a signe vnto thee vpon thine hande, and for a remembrance betweene thine eyes, that the Lawe of the Lord may be in thy mouth: for by a strong hand the Lord brought thee out of Egypt.
Exodus 13:10	Keepe therefore this ordinance in his season appoynted from yeere to yeere.
Exodus 13:11	And when the Lord shall bring thee into the lande of the Canaanites, as hee sware vnto thee and to thy fathers, and shall giue it thee,
Exodus 13:12	Then thou shalt set apart vnto the Lord all that first openeth the wombe: also euery thing that first doeth open the wombe, and commeth forth of thy beast: the males shalbe the Lordes.
Exodus 13:13	But euery first foale of an asse, thou shalt redeeme with a lambe: and if thou redeeme him not, then thou shalt breake his necke: likewise all the first borne of man among thy sonnes shalt thou bye out.
Exodus 13:14	And when thy sonne shall aske thee to morowe, saying, What is this? thou shalt then say vnto him, With a mightie hande the Lord brought vs out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
Exodus 13:15	For when Pharaoh was harde hearted against our departing, the Lord then slewe all the first borne in the lande of Egypt: from the first borne of man euen to the first borne of beast: therefore I sacrifice vnto the Lord all the males that first open the wombe, but all the first borne of my sonnes I redeeme.
Exodus 13:16	And it shalbe as a token vpon thine hand, and as frontlets betweene thine eyes, that the Lord brought vs out of Egypt by a mightie hande.
Exodus 13:17	Nowe when Pharaoh had let the people go, God caried them not by the way of the Philistims countrey, though it were neerer: (for God sayd, Lest the people repent whe they see warre, and turne againe to Egypt)
Exodus 13:18	But God made the people to go about by the way of the wildernesse of the red sea: and the children of Israel went vp armed out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 13:19	(And Moses tooke the bones of Ioseph with him: for he had made the children of Israel sweare, saying, God will surely visite you, and ye shall take my bones away hence with you)
Exodus 13:20	So they tooke their iourney from Succoth, and camped in Etham in the edge of the wildernesse.
Exodus 13:21	And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloude to leade them the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to giue them light, that they might go both by day and by night.
Exodus 13:22	He tooke not away the pillar of ye cloude by day, nor the pillar of fire by night from before the people.
Exodus 14:1	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 14:2	Speake to the children of Israel, that they returne and campe before Pi-hahiroth, betweene Migdol and the Sea, ouer against Baal-zephon: about it shall ye campe by the Sea.
Exodus 14:3	For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are tangled in the land: the wildernesse hath shut them in.
Exodus 14:4	And I will harden Pharaohs heart that hee shall follow after you: so I will get mee honour vpon Pharaoh, and vpon all his hoste: the Egyptians also shall knowe that I am the Lord: and they did so.
Exodus 14:5	Then it was told the King of Egypt, that the people fled: and the heart of Pharaoh and of his seruants was turned against the people, and they sayde, Why haue we this done, and haue let Israel go out of our seruice?
Exodus 14:6	And he made ready his charets, and tooke his people with him,
Exodus 14:7	And tooke sixe hundreth chosen charets, and all the charets of Egypt, and captaines ouer euery one of them.
Exodus 14:8	(For the Lord had hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he followed after the children of Israel: but the children of Israel went out with an hie hand)
Exodus 14:9	And the Egyptians pursued after them, and all the horses and charets of Pharaoh, and his horsemen and his hoste ouertooke them camping by the Sea, beside Pi-hahiroth, before Baal-zephon.
Exodus 14:10	And when Pharaoh drew nie, the children of Israel lift vp their eyes, and beholde, the Egyptians marched after them, and they were sore afrayde: wherefore the children of Israel cried vnto the Lord.
Exodus 14:11	And they sayde vnto Moses, Hast thou brought vs to die in the wildernes, because there were no graues in Egypt? wherefore hast thou serued vs thus, to carie vs out of Egypt?
Exodus 14:12	Did not wee tell thee this thing in Egypt, saying, Let vs be in rest, that we may serue the Egyptians? for it had bene better for vs to serue the Egyptians, then that wee shoulde dye in the wildernesse.
Exodus 14:13	Then Moses sayde to the people, Feare ye not, stand still, and beholde the saluation of the Lord which he will shew to you this day. For the Egyptians, whome ye haue seene this day, ye shall neuer see them againe.
Exodus 14:14	The Lord shall fight for you: therefore hold you your peace.
Exodus 14:15	And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Wherefore cryest thou vnto me? speake vnto the children of Israel that they go forward:
Exodus 14:16	And lift thou vp thy rod, and stretche out thine hand vpon the Sea and deuide it, and let the children of Israel goe on drie ground thorow the middes of the Sea.
Exodus 14:17	And I, beholde, I will harden the heart of the Egyptians, that they may follow them, and I wil get me honour vpon Pharaoh, and vpon all his host, vpon his charets, and vpon his horsemen.
Exodus 14:18	Then the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord, when I haue gotten me honour vpon Pharaoh, vpon his charets, and vpon his horsemen.
Exodus 14:19	(And the Angel of God, which went before the hoste of Israel, remoued and went behinde them: also the pillar of the cloude went from before them, and stoode behinde them,
Exodus 14:20	And came betweene the campe of the Egyptians and the campe of Israel: it was both a cloude and darkenes, yet gaue it light by night, so that all the night long the one came not at the other)
Exodus 14:21	And Moses stretched forth his hande vpon the Sea, and the Lord caused the sea to runne backe by a strong East winde all the night, and made the Sea dry land: for the waters were deuided.
Exodus 14:22	Then the children of Israel went through the middes of the Sea vpon the drie ground, and the waters were a wall vnto them on their right hand, and on their left hand.
Exodus 14:23	And the Egyptians pursued and went after them to the middes of the Sea, euen all Pharaohs horses, his charets, and his horsemen.
Exodus 14:24	Nowe in the morning watche, when the Lord looked vnto the hoste of the Egyptians, out of the firie and cloudie pillar, he strooke the host of the Egyptians with feare.
Exodus 14:25	For he tooke off their charet wheeles, and they draue them with much a doe: so that the Egyptians euery one sayd, I wil flee from the face of Israel: for the Lord fighteth for them against the Egyptians.
Exodus 14:26	Then the Lord sayde to Moses, Stretche thine hand vpon the Sea, that the waters may returne vpon the Egyptians, vpon their charets and vpon their horsemen.
Exodus 14:27	Then Moses stretched forth his hand vpon the Sea, and the Sea returned to his force early in the morning, and the Egyptians fled against it: but the Lord ouerthrew the Egyptians in the mids of the Sea.
Exodus 14:28	So the water returned and couered the charets and the horsemen, euen all the hoste of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them: there remained not one of them.
Exodus 14:29	But the children of Israel walked vpon dry land thorowe the middes of the Sea, and the waters were a wall vnto them on their right hande, and on their left.
Exodus 14:30	Thus the Lord saued Israel the same day out of the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel sawe the Egyptians dead vpon the Sea banke.
Exodus 14:31	And Israel saw the mightie power, which the Lord shewed vpon the Egyptians: so the people feared the Lord, and beleeued the Lord, and his seruant Moses.
Exodus 15:1	Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song vnto the Lord, and sayd in this maner, I will sing vnto the Lord: for he hath triumphed gloriously: the horse and him that rode vpon him hath he ouerthrowen in the Sea.
Exodus 15:2	The Lord is my strength and praise, and he is become my saluation. He is my God, and I will prepare him a tabernacle. he is my fathers God, and I will exalt him.
Exodus 15:3	The Lord is a man of warre, his Name is Iehouah.
Exodus 15:4	Pharaohs charets and his host hath he cast into the Sea: his chosen captaines also were drowned in the red Sea.
Exodus 15:5	The depths haue couered them, they sanke to the bottome as a stone.
Exodus 15:6	Thy right hande, O Lord, is glorious in power: thy right hand, O Lord, hath brused the enemie.
Exodus 15:7	And in thy great glorie thou hast ouerthrowen them that rose against thee: thou sentest forth thy wrath, which consumed them as the stubble.
Exodus 15:8	And by the blast of thy nostrels the waters were gathered, the floods stoode still as an heape, the depthes congealed together in the heart of the Sea.
Exodus 15:9	The enemie sayd, I wil pursue, I wil ouertake them, I will deuide the spoyle, my lust shall bee satisfied vpon them, I will drawe my sworde, mine hand shall destroy them.
Exodus 15:10	Thou blewest with thy winde, the Sea couered them, they sanke as leade in the mightie waters.
Exodus 15:11	Who is like vnto thee, O Lord, among the Gods! who is like thee so glorious in holinesse, fearefull in prayses, doing wonders!
Exodus 15:12	Thou stretchedst out thy right hande, the earth swallowed them.
Exodus 15:13	Thou wilt by thy mercie cary this people, which thou deliueredst: thou wilt bring them in thy strength vnto thine holy habitation.
Exodus 15:14	The people shall heare and be afraide: sorow shall come vpon the inhabitants of Palestina.
Exodus 15:15	Then the dukes of Edom shalbe amased, and trembling shall come vpon the great men of Moab: all the inhabitantes of Canaan shall waxe faint hearted.
Exodus 15:16	Feare and dread shall fall vpon them: because of the greatnesse of thine arme, they shalbe stil as a stone, till thy people passe, O Lord: til this people passe, which thou hast purchased.
Exodus 15:17	Thou shalt bring them in, and plant them in the mountaine of thine inheritance, which is the place that thou hast prepared, O Lord, for to dwell in, euen the sanctuarie, O Lord, which thine hands shall establish.
Exodus 15:18	The Lord shall reigne for euer and euer.
Exodus 15:19	For Pharaohs horses went with his charets and horsemen into the Sea, and the Lord brought the waters of the Sea vpon them: but the children of Israel went on drie land in the middes of the Sea.
Exodus 15:20	And Miriam the prophetesse, sister of Aaron tooke a timbrell in her hande, and all the women came out after her with timbrels and daunces.
Exodus 15:21	And Miriam answered the men, Sing yee vnto the Lord: for he hath triumphed gloriously: the horse and his rider hath hee ouerthrowen in the Sea.
Exodus 15:22	Then Moses brought Israel from the redde Sea, and they went out into the wildernesse of Shur: and they went three dayes in the wildernesse, and found no waters.
Exodus 15:23	And whe they came to Marah, they could not drinke of the waters of Marah, for they were bitter: therefore the name of the place was called Marah.
Exodus 15:24	Then the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we drinke?
Exodus 15:25	And he cried vnto the Lord, and the Lord shewed him a tree, which when he had cast into the waters, the waters were sweete: there he made them an ordinance and a law, and there he proued them,
Exodus 15:26	And sayd, if thou wilt diligently hearken, O Israel, vnto the voyce of the Lord thy God, and wilt do that, which is right in his sight, and wilt giue eare vnto his commandements, and keepe all his ordinances, then will I put none of these diseases vpon thee, which I brought vpon the Egyptians: for I am the Lord that healeth thee.
Exodus 15:27	And they came to Elim, where were twelue fountaines of water, and seuentie palme trees, and they camped thereby the waters.
Exodus 16:1	Afterward all the Congregation of the children of Israel departed from Elim, and came to the wildernes of Sin, (which is betweene Elim and Sinai) the fiftenth day of the second moneth after their departing out of ye land of Egypt.
Exodus 16:2	And the whole Congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron in the wildernesse.
Exodus 16:3	For the children of Israel sayde to them, Oh that we had dyed by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, when wee sate by the flesh pots, when wee ate bread our bellies full: for yee haue brought vs out into this wildernesse, to kill this whole company with famine.
Exodus 16:4	Then sayd the Lord vnto Moses, Behold, I wil cause bread to rayne from heauen to you, and the people shall goe out, and gather that that is sufficient for euery day, that I may proue them, whether they wil walke in my Law or no.
Exodus 16:5	But the sixt daye they shall prepare that, which they shall bring home, and it shalbe twise as much as they gather dayly.
Exodus 16:6	Then Moses and Aaron sayde vnto all the children of Israel, At euen ye shall know, that the Lord brought you out of the land of Egypt:
Exodus 16:7	And in the morning ye shall see the glorie of the Lord: for he hath heard your grudgings against the Lord: and what are we that ye haue murmured against vs?
Exodus 16:8	Againe Moses sayd, At euen shall the Lord giue you flesh to eate, and in the morning your fil of bread: for the Lord hath heard your murmurings, which ye murmure against him: for what are we? your murmurings are not against vs, but against the Lord.
Exodus 16:9	And Moses sayd to Aaron, Say vnto all the Congregation of the children of Israel, Draw neere before the Lord: for he hath heard your murmurings.
Exodus 16:10	Now as Aaron spake vnto the whole Congregation of the children of Israel, they looked toward the wildernesse, and beholde, the glory of the Lord appeared in a cloude.
Exodus 16:11	(For the Lord had spoken vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 16:12	I haue heard the murmurings of the children of Israel: tell them therefore, and say, At euen ye shall eate flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread, and ye shall knowe that I am the Lord your God)
Exodus 16:13	And so at euen the quailes came and couered the campe: and in the morning the dewe lay round about the hoste.
Exodus 16:14	And when the dewe that was fallen was ascended, beholde, a small round thing was vpon the face of the wildernes, small as the hoare frost on the earth.
Exodus 16:15	And when the children of Israel sawe it, they sayde one to another, It is MAN, for they wist not what it was. And Moses sayd vnto them, This is the breade which the Lord hath giuen you to eate.
Exodus 16:16	This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded: gather of it euery man according to his eating an Omer for a man according to the number of your persons: euery man shall take for them which are in his tent.
Exodus 16:17	And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some lesse.
Exodus 16:18	And when they did measure it with an Omer, hee that had gathered much, had nothing ouer, and he that had gathered litle, had no lacke: so euery man gathered according to his eating.
Exodus 16:19	Moses then said vnto them, Let no man reserue thereof till morning.
Exodus 16:20	Notwithstanding they obeyed not Moses: but some of them reserued of it till morning, and it was full of wormes, and stanke: therefore Moses was angrie with them.
Exodus 16:21	And they gathered it euery morning, euery man according to his eating: for when the heate of the sunne came, it was melted.
Exodus 16:22	And the sixt day they gathered twise so much bread, two Omers for one man: then all the rulers of the Congregation came and told Moses.
Exodus 16:23	And he answered them, This is that, which the Lord hath sayde, To morowe is the rest of the holy Sabbath vnto the Lord: bake that to day which ye wil bake, and seethe that which ye wil seethe, and all that remaineth, lay it vp to be kept till the morning for you.
Exodus 16:24	And they laied it vp till the morning, as Moses bade, and it stanke not, neyther was there any worme therein.
Exodus 16:25	Then Moses sayde, Eate that to day: for to day is the Sabbath vnto the Lord: to day ye shall not finde it in the fielde.
Exodus 16:26	Sixe dayes shall yee gather it, but in the seuenth day is the Sabbath: in it there shalbe none.
Exodus 16:27	Notwithstanding, there went out some of the people in ye seuenth day for to gather, and they found none.
Exodus 16:28	And the Lord sayde vnto Moses, Howe long refuse yee to keepe my commandements, and my lawes?
Exodus 16:29	Beholde, howe the Lord hath giuen you the Sabbath: therefore he giueth you the sixt day bread for two dayes: tary therefore euery man in his place: let no man goe out of his place the seuenth day.
Exodus 16:30	So the people rested the seuenth day.
Exodus 16:31	And the house of Israel called the name of it, MAN. and it was like to coriander seede, but white: and the taste of it was like vnto wafers made with hony.
Exodus 16:32	And Moses said, This is that which the Lord hath commanded, Fill an Omer of it, to keepe it for your posteritie: that they may see the bread wherewith I haue fed you in wildernesse, when I brought you out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 16:33	Moses also said to Aaron, Take a pot and put an Omer full of MAN therein, and set it before the Lord to be kept for your posteritie.
Exodus 16:34	As the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron laied it vp before the Testimonie to be kept.
Exodus 16:35	And the children of Israel did eate MAN fourtie yeres, vntill they came vnto a land inhabited: they did eate MAN vntill they came to the borders of the land of Canaan.
Exodus 16:36	The Omer is the tenth part of the Ephah.
Exodus 17:1	And all the Congregation of the children of Israel departed from the wildernesse of Sin, by their iourneyes at the commandement of the Lord, and camped in Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drinke.
Exodus 17:2	Wherefore the people contended with Moses, and sayde, Giue vs water that we may drinke. And Moses sayde vnto them, Why contende yee with me? wherefore do ye tempt the Lord?
Exodus 17:3	So the people thirsted there for water, and the people murmured against Moses, and said, Wherefore hast thou thus brought vs out of Egypt to kill vs and our children and our cattel with thirst?
Exodus 17:4	And Moses cried to the Lord, saying, What shall I do to this people? for they be almost ready to stone me.
Exodus 17:5	And ye Lord answered to Moses, Goe before the people, and take with thee of the Elders of Israel: and thy rod, wherewith thou smotest the riuer, take in thine hand, and go:
Exodus 17:6	Behold, I will stand there before thee vpon the rocke in Horeb, and thou shalt smite on the rocke, and water shall come out of it, that the people may drinke. And Moses did so in the sight of the Elders of Israel.
Exodus 17:7	And he called the name of the place, Massah and Meribah, because of the contention of the children of Israel, and because they had tempted the Lord, saying, Is the Lord among vs, or no?
Exodus 17:8	Then came Amalek and fought with Israel in Rephidim.
Exodus 17:9	And Moses sayde to Ioshua, Chuse vs out men, and go fight with Amalek: to morowe I will stande on the toppe of the hill with the rod of God in mine hand.
Exodus 17:10	So Ioshua did as Moses bad him, and fought with Amalek: and Moses, Aaron, and Hur, went vp to the top of the hill.
Exodus 17:11	And when Moses helde vp his hande, Israel preuailed: but when he let his hande downe, Amalek preuailed.
Exodus 17:12	Nowe Moses handes were heauy: therefore they tooke a stone and put it vnder him, and hee sate vpon it: and Aaron and Hur stayed vp his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side: so his hands were steady vntill the going downe of the sunne.
Exodus 17:13	And Ioshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword.
Exodus 17:14	And the Lord sayde to Moses, Write this for a remembrance in the booke, and rehearse it to Ioshua: for I will vtterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from vnder heauen.
Exodus 17:15	(And Moses builte an altar and called the name of it, Iehouah-nissi)
Exodus 17:16	Also he said, The Lord hath sworne, that he will haue warre with Amalek from generation to generation.
Exodus 18:1	When Iethro the Priest of Midian Moses father in lawe heard all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, and howe the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt,
Exodus 18:2	Then Iethro the father in lawe of Moses, tooke Zipporah Moses wife, (after he had sent her away)
Exodus 18:3	And her two sonnes, (whereof the one was called Gershom: for he sayd, I haue bene an aliant in a strange land:
Exodus 18:4	And the name of the other was Eliezer: for the God of my father, said he, was mine helpe, and deliuered me from the sword of Pharaoh)
Exodus 18:5	And Iethro Moses father in law came with his two sonnes, and his wife vnto Moses into the wildernes, where he camped by ye mout of God.
Exodus 18:6	And he said to Moses, I thy father in law Iethro am come to thee, and thy wife and her two sonnes with her.
Exodus 18:7	And Moses went out to meete his father in law, and did obeisance and kissed him, and eche asked other of his welfare: and they came into the tent.
Exodus 18:8	Then Moses told his father in law all that the Lord had done vnto Pharaoh, and to the Egyptians for Israels sake, and all the trauaile that had come vnto them by the way, and howe the Lord deliuered them.
Exodus 18:9	And Iethro reioyced at all the goodnesse, which the Lord had shewed to Israel, and because he had deliuered them out of the hande of the Egyptians.
Exodus 18:10	Therfore Iethro sayd, Blessed be the Lord who hath deliuered you out of the hande of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh: who hath also deliuered the people from vnder the hand of the Egyptians.
Exodus 18:11	Now I know that the Lord is greater then all the gods: for as they haue dealt proudly with them, so are they recompensed.
Exodus 18:12	Then Iethro Moses father in lawe tooke burnt offerings and sacrifices to offer vnto God. And Aaron and all the Elders of Israel came to eat bread with Moses father in law before God.
Exodus 18:13	Now on the morow, when Moses sate to iudge the people, the people stoode about Moses from morning vnto euen.
Exodus 18:14	And when Moses father in law saw all that he did to the people, he sayde, What is this that thou doest to the people? why sittest thou thy selfe alone, and all the people stande about thee from morning vnto euen?
Exodus 18:15	And Moses sayd vnto his father in law, Because the people come vnto me to seeke God.
Exodus 18:16	When they haue a matter, they come vnto me, and I iudge betweene one and another, and declare the ordinances of God, and his lawes.
Exodus 18:17	But Moses father in law said vnto him, The thing which thou doest, is not well.
Exodus 18:18	Thou both weariest thy selfe greatly, and this people that is with thee: for the thing is too heauie for thee: thou art not able to doe it thy selfe alone.
Exodus 18:19	Heare nowe my voyce, (I will giue thee counsell, and God shalbe with thee) be thou for the people to Godwarde, and report thou the causes vnto God,
Exodus 18:20	And admonish them of the ordinances, and of the lawes, and shew them the way, wherein they must walke, and the worke that they must do.
Exodus 18:21	Moreouer, prouide thou among al the people men of courage, fearing God, men dealing truely, hating couetousnesse: and appoynt such ouer them to be rulers ouer thousandes, rulers ouer hundreths, rulers ouer fifties, and rulers ouer tennes.
Exodus 18:22	And let them iudge the people at all seasons: but euery great matter let them bring vnto thee, and let them iudge all small causes: so shall it be easier for thee, when they shall beare the burden with thee.
Exodus 18:23	If thou do this thing, (and God so command thee) both thou shalt be able to endure, and all this people shall also go quietly to their place.
Exodus 18:24	So Moses obeyed the voyce of his father in law, and did all that he had sayd:
Exodus 18:25	And Moses chose men of courage out of all Israel, and made them heads ouer the people, rulers ouer thousandes, rulers ouer hundreths, rulers ouer fifties, and rulers ouer tennes.
Exodus 18:26	And they iudged the people at all seasons, but they brought the hard causes vnto Moses: for they iudged all small matters themselues.
Exodus 18:27	Afterward Moses let his father in law depart, and he went into his countrey.
Exodus 19:1	In the third moneth, after the children of Israel were gone out of the lande of Egypt, the same day came they into the wildernes of Sinai.
Exodus 19:2	For they departed from Rephidim, and came to the desart of Sinai, and camped in the wildernesse: euen there Israel camped before the mount.
Exodus 19:3	But Moses went vp vnto God, for ye Lord had called out of the mount vnto him, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Iaakob, and tell the children of Israel,
Exodus 19:4	Ye haue seene what I did vnto the Egyptians, and how I caryed you vpon eagles wings, and haue brought you vnto me.
Exodus 19:5	Now therefore if ye wil heare my voyce in deede, and keepe my couenant, then ye shalbe my chiefe treasure aboue all people, though all the earth be mine.
Exodus 19:6	Yee shall be vnto mee also a kingdome of Priestes, and an holy nation. These are the words which thou shalt speake vnto the children of Israel.
Exodus 19:7	Moses then came and called for the Elders of the people, and proposed vnto them all these things, which the Lord commanded him.
Exodus 19:8	And the people answered all together, and sayd, All that the Lord hath commanded, we will doe. And Moses reported the wordes of the people vnto the Lord.
Exodus 19:9	And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Lo, I come vnto thee in a thicke cloude, that the people may heare, whiles I talke with thee, and that they may also beleeue thee for euer. (for Moses had tolde the wordes of the people vnto the Lord)
Exodus 19:10	Moreouer, the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Goe to the people, and sanctifie them to day and to morow, and let them wash their clothes.
Exodus 19:11	And let them be ready on the third day: for the thirde day the Lord will come downe in the sight of all the people vpon mount Sinai:
Exodus 19:12	And thou shalt set markes vnto the people rounde about, saying, Take heede to your selues that ye goe not vp the mount, nor touche the border of it: whosoeuer toucheth the mount, shall surely die.
Exodus 19:13	No hand shall touche it, but he shalbe stoned to death, or striken through with darts: whether it be beast or man, he shall not liue: when the horne bloweth long, they shall come vp into the mountaine.
Exodus 19:14	Then Moses went downe from ye mount vnto the people, and sanctified the people, and they washed their clothes.
Exodus 19:15	And he said vnto the people, Be ready on the third day, and come not at your wiues.
Exodus 19:16	And the thirde day, when it was morning, there was thunders and lightnings, and a thicke cloude vpon the mount, and the sounde of the trumpet exceeding loude, so that all the people, that was in the campe, was afrayde.
Exodus 19:17	Then Moses brought the people out of the tents to meete with God, and they stoode in the nether part of the mount.
Exodus 19:18	And mount Sinai was all on smoke, because the Lord came downe vpon it in fire, and the smoke therof ascended, as the smoke of a fornace, and all the mount trembled exceedingly.
Exodus 19:19	And when the sound of the trumpet blew long, and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by voyce.
Exodus 19:20	(For the Lord came downe vpon mount Sinai on the toppe of the mount) and when the Lord called Moses vp into the top of the mount, Moses went vp.
Exodus 19:21	Then the Lord said vnto Moses, Go down, charge the people, that they breake not their boundes, to go vp to the Lord to gaze, least many of them perish.
Exodus 19:22	And let the Priestes also which come to the Lord be sanctified, least the Lord destroy them.
Exodus 19:23	And Moses sayde vnto the Lord, The people can not come vp into the mount Sinai: for thou hast charged vs, saying, Set markes on the mountaine, and sanctifie it.
Exodus 19:24	And the Lord sayd vnto him, Go, get thee downe, and come vp, thou, and Aaron with thee: but let not the Priestes and the people breake their boundes to come vp vnto the Lord, least he destroy them.
Exodus 19:25	So Moses went downe vnto the people, and tolde them.
Exodus 20:1	Then God spake all these wordes, saying,
Exodus 20:2	I am the Lord thy God, which haue brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
Exodus 20:3	Thou shalt haue none other Gods before me.
Exodus 20:4	Thou shalt make thee no grauen image, neither any similitude of things that are in heauen aboue, neither that are in the earth beneath, nor that are in the waters vnder the earth.
Exodus 20:5	Thou shalt not bowe downe to them, neither serue them: for I am the Lord thy God, a ielous God, visiting the iniquitie of the fathers vpon the children, vpon the third generation and vpon the fourth of them that hate me:
Exodus 20:6	And shewing mercie vnto thousandes to them that loue me, and keepe my commandemets.
Exodus 20:7	Thou shalt not take the Name of the Lord thy God in vaine: for the Lord will not hold him guiltles that taketh his Name in vayne.
Exodus 20:8	Remember the Sabbath day, to keepe it holy.
Exodus 20:9	Sixe dayes shalt thou labour, and doe all thy worke,
Exodus 20:10	But the seuenth day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any worke, thou, nor thy sonne, nor thy daughter, thy man seruant, nor thy mayde, nor thy beast, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates.
Exodus 20:11	For in sixe dayes the Lord made the heauen and the earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seuenth day: therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it.
Exodus 20:12	Honour thy father and thy mother, that thy dayes may be prolonged vpon the land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee.
Exodus 20:13	Thou shalt not kill.
Exodus 20:14	Thou shalt not commit adulterie.
Exodus 20:15	Thou shalt not steale.
Exodus 20:16	Thou shalt not beare false witnes against thy neighbour.
Exodus 20:17	Thou shalt not couet thy neighbours house, neither shalt thou couet thy neighbours wife, nor his man seruant, nor his mayde, nor his oxe, nor his asse, neyther any thing that is thy neighbours.
Exodus 20:18	And all the people sawe the thunders, and the lightnings, and the sound of the trumpet, and the mountaine smoking and when the people saw it they fled and stoode afare off,
Exodus 20:19	And sayde vnto Moses, Talke thou with vs, and we will heare: but let not God talke with vs, lest we die.
Exodus 20:20	Then Moses sayde vnto the people, Feare not: for God is come to proue you, and that his feare may be before you, that ye sinne not.
Exodus 20:21	So the people stoode afarre off, but Moses drew neere vnto the darkenes where God was.
Exodus 20:22	And the Lord sayde vnto Moses, Thus thou shalt say vnto the children of Israel, Ye haue seene that I haue talked with you from heauen.
Exodus 20:23	Ye shall not make therefore with me gods of siluer, nor gods of golde: you shall make you none.
Exodus 20:24	An altar of earth thou shalt make vnto me, and thereon shalt offer thy burnt offerings, and thy peace offerings, thy sheepe, and thine oxen: in all places, where I shall put the remembrance of my Name, I will come vnto thee, and blesse thee.
Exodus 20:25	But if thou wilt make mee an altar of stone, thou shalt not buylde it of hewen stones: for if thou lift vp thy toole vpon them, thou hast polluted them.
Exodus 20:26	Neither shalt thou goe vp by steppes vnto mine altar, that thy filthines be not discouered thereon.
Exodus 21:1	Now these are the lawes, which thou shalt set before them:
Exodus 21:2	If thou bye an Ebrewe seruant, he shall serue sixe yeres, and in the seuenth he shall go out free, for nothing.
Exodus 21:3	If he came himselfe alone, he shall goe out himselfe alone: if hee were married, then his wife shall go out with him.
Exodus 21:4	If his master haue giuen him a wife, and she hath borne him sonnes or daughters, he wife and her children shalbe her masters, but he shall goe out himselfe alone.
Exodus 21:5	But if the seruant saye thus, I loue my master, my wife and my children, I will not goe out free,
Exodus 21:6	Then his master shall bring him vnto the Iudges, and set him to the dore, or to the poste, and his master shall bore his eare through with a nawle, and he shall serue him for euer.
Exodus 21:7	Likewise if a man sell his daughter to be a seruant, she shall not goe out as the men seruantes doe.
Exodus 21:8	If shee please not her master, who hath betrothed her to him selfe, then shall hee cause to buy her: hee shall haue no power to sell her to a strange people, seeing he despised her.
Exodus 21:9	But if he hath betrothed her vnto his sonne, he shall deale with her according to the custome of the daughters.
Exodus 21:10	If he take him another wife, he shall not diminish her foode, her rayment, and recompence of her virginitie.
Exodus 21:11	And if he do not these three vnto her, the shall she go out free, paying no money.
Exodus 21:12	He that smiteth a man, and he die, shall dye the death.
Exodus 21:13	And if a man hath not layed wayte, but God hath offered him into his hande, then I wil appoynt thee a place whither he shall flee.
Exodus 21:14	But if a man come presumptuously vpon his neighbour to slay him with guile, thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die.
Exodus 21:15	Also hee that smiteth his father or his mother, shall die the death.
Exodus 21:16	And he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, if it be founde with him, shall die the death.
Exodus 21:17	And hee that curseth his father or his mother, shall die the death.
Exodus 21:18	When men also striue together, and one smite another with a stone, or with the fist, and he die not, but lieth in bed,
Exodus 21:19	If hee rise againe and walke without vpon his staffe, then shall he that smote him go quite, saue onely hee shall beare his charges for his resting, and shall pay for his healing.
Exodus 21:20	And if a man smite his seruant, or his maide with a rod, and he die vnder his hande, he shalbe surely punished.
Exodus 21:21	But if he continue a day, or two dayes, hee shall not be punished: for he is his money.
Exodus 21:22	Also if men striue and hurt a woman with childe, so that her childe depart from her, and death follow not, hee shall bee surely punished according as the womans husband shall appoynt him, or he shall pay as the Iudges determine.
Exodus 21:23	But if death follow, then thou shalt paye life for life,
Exodus 21:24	Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hande for hand, foote for foote,
Exodus 21:25	Burning for burning, wound for wounde, stripe for stripe.
Exodus 21:26	And if a man smite his seruant in the eie, or his maide in the eye, and hath perished it, hee shall let him goe free for his eye.
Exodus 21:27	Also if he smite out his seruants tooth, or his maides tooth, he shall let him goe out free for his tooth.
Exodus 21:28	If an oxe gore a man or a woman, that he die, the oxe shalbe stoned to death, and his flesh shall not be eaten, but the owner of the oxe shall goe quite.
Exodus 21:29	If the oxe were wont to push in times past, and it hath bene tolde his master, and hee hath not kept him, and after he killeth a man or a woman, the oxe shall be stoned, and his owner shall die also.
Exodus 21:30	If there be set to him a summe of mony, then he shall pay the raunsome of his life, whatsoeuer shalbe laied vpon him.
Exodus 21:31	Whether he hath gored a sonne or gored a daughter, he shalbe iudged after the same maner.
Exodus 21:32	If the oxe gore a seruant or a mayde, hee shall giue vnto their master thirtie shekels of siluer, and the oxe shalbe stoned.
Exodus 21:33	And when a man shall open a well, or when he shall dig a pit and couer it not, and an oxe or an asse fall therein,
Exodus 21:34	The owner of the pit shall make it good, and giue money to the owners thereof, but the dead beast shalbe his.
Exodus 21:35	And if a mans oxe hurt his neighbours oxe that he die, then they shall sel the liue oxe, and deuide the money thereof, and the dead oxe also they shall deuide.
Exodus 21:36	Or if it bee knowen that the oxe hath vsed to push in times past, and his master hath not kept him, he shall pay oxe for oxe, but the dead shall be his owne.
Exodus 22:1	If a man steale an oxe or a sheepe, and kill it or sell it, he shall restore fiue oxen for the oxe, and foure sheepe for the sheepe.
Exodus 22:2	If a thiefe bee founde breaking vp, and be smitten that he dye, no blood shall be shed for him.
Exodus 22:3	But if it be in the day light, blood shall be shed for him: for he should make full restitution: if he had not wherewith, then shoulde he bee solde for his theft.
Exodus 22:4	If the theft bee founde with him, aliue, (whether it be oxe, asse, or sheepe) he shall restore the double.
Exodus 22:5	If a man doe hurt fielde, or vineyarde, and put in his beast to feed in an other mans fielde, he shall recompence of the best of his owne fielde, and of the best of his owne vineyard.
Exodus 22:6	If fire breake out, and catche in ye thornes, and the stackes of corne, or the standing corne, or the fielde be consumed, he that kindled the fire shall make full restitution.
Exodus 22:7	If a man deliuer his neighbour money or stuffe to keepe, and it be stollen out of his house, if the thiefe be found, he shall pay the double.
Exodus 22:8	If the thiefe be not founde, then the master of the house shalbe brought vnto the Iudges to sweare, whether he hath put his hande vnto his neighbours good, or no.
Exodus 22:9	In all maner of trespasse, whether it bee for oxen, for asse, for sheepe, for raiment, or for any maner of lost thing, which an other chalengeth to be his, the cause of both parties shall come before the iudges, and whom the Iudges condemne, he shall pay the double vnto his neighbour.
Exodus 22:10	If a man deliuer vnto his neighbour to keepe asse, or oxe, or sheepe, or any beast, and it die, or be hurt, or taken away by enemies, and no man see it,
Exodus 22:11	An othe of the Lord shalbe betweene the twaine, that hee hath not put his hande vnto his neighbours good, and the owner of it shall take the othe, and he shall not make it good:
Exodus 22:12	But if it be stollen from him, he shall make restitution vnto the owner thereof.
Exodus 22:13	If it be torne in pieces, he shall bring recorde, and shall not make that good, which is deuoured.
Exodus 22:14	And if a man borow ought of his neighbour, and it be hurt, or els die, the owner thereof not being by, he shall surely make it good.
Exodus 22:15	If the owner thereof bee by, hee shall not make it good: for if it be an hired thing, it came for his hire.
Exodus 22:16	And if a man entise a maide that is not betrothed, and lie with her, hee shall endowe her, and take her to his wife.
Exodus 22:17	If her father refuse to giue her to him, hee shall pay money, according to ye dowry of virgins.
Exodus 22:18	Thou shalt not suffer a witch to liue.
Exodus 22:19	Whosoeuer lieth with a beast, shall dye the death.
Exodus 22:20	Hee that offereth vnto any gods, saue vnto the Lord onely, shalbe slaine.
Exodus 22:21	Moreouer, thou shalt not do iniurie to a stranger, neither oppresse him: for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.
Exodus 22:22	Ye shall not trouble any widowe, nor fatherlesse childe.
Exodus 22:23	If thou vexe or trouble such, and so he call and cry vnto me, I will surely heare his cry.
Exodus 22:24	Then shall my wrath be kindled, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wiues shall be widowes, and your children fatherlesse.
Exodus 22:25	If thou lende money to my people, that is, to the poore with thee, thou shalt not bee as an vsurer vnto him: yee shall not oppresse him with vsurie.
Exodus 22:26	If thou take thy neighbours rayment to pledge, thou shalt restore it vnto him before the sunne go downe:
Exodus 22:27	For that is his couering only, and this is his garment for his skin: wherin shall he sleepe? therefore when he crieth vnto mee, I will heare him: for I am mercifull.
Exodus 22:28	Thou shalt not raile vpon the Iudges, neither speake euil of the ruler of thy people.
Exodus 22:29	Thine abundance and thy licour shalt thou not keepe backe. The first borne of thy sonnes shalt thou giue me.
Exodus 22:30	Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen and with thy sheepe: seuen dayes it shall bee with his damme, and the eight day thou shalt giue it me.
Exodus 22:31	Ye shall be an holy people vnto me, neither shall ye eate any flesh that is torne of beastes in the fielde: ye shall cast it to the dogge.
Exodus 23:1	Thou shalt not receiue a false tale, neyther shalt thou put thine hande with the wicked, to be a false witnes.
Exodus 23:2	Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do euil, neither agree in a controuersie to decline after many and ouerthrowe the trueth.
Exodus 23:3	Thou shalt not esteeme a poore man in his cause.
Exodus 23:4	If thou meete thine enemies oxe, or his asse going astray, thou shalt bring him to him againe.
Exodus 23:5	If thou see thine enemies asse lying vnder his burden, wilt thou cease to helpe him? thou shalt helpe him vp againe with it.
Exodus 23:6	Thou shalt not ouerthrowe the right of thy poore in his sute.
Exodus 23:7	Thou shalt keepe thee farre from a false matter, and shalt not slaye the innocent and the righteous: for I will not iustifie a wicked man.
Exodus 23:8	Thou shalt take no gift: for the gift blindeth the wise, and peruerteth the wordes of the righteous.
Exodus 23:9	Thou shalt not oppresse a stranger: for ye knowe the heart of a stranger, seeing yee were strangers in the land of Egypt.
Exodus 23:10	Moreouer, sixe yeres thou shalt sowe thy land, and gather the fruites thereof,
Exodus 23:11	But the seuenth yeere thou shalt let it rest and lie still, that the poore of thy people may eat, and what they leaue, the beastes of the fielde shall eate. In like maner thou shalt doe with thy vineyard, and with thine oliue trees.
Exodus 23:12	Sixe dayes thou shalt do thy worke, and in the seuenth day thou shalt rest, that thine oxe, and thine asse may rest, and the sonne of thy maide and the stranger may be refreshed.
Exodus 23:13	And ye shall take heede to all things that I haue sayde vnto you: and ye shall make no mention of the name of other gods, neither shall it be heard out of thy mouth.
Exodus 23:14	Three times thou shalt keepe a feast vnto me in the yeere.
Exodus 23:15	Thou shalt keepe the feast of vnleauened bread: thou shalt eate vnleauened bread seue dayes, as I commanded thee, in the season of the moneth of Abib: for in it thou camest out of Egypt: and none shall appeare before me emptie:
Exodus 23:16	The feast also of the haruest of the first fruites of thy labours, which thou hast sowen in the fielde: and the feast of gathering fruites in the ende of the yere, when thou hast gathered in thy labours out of the fielde.
Exodus 23:17	These three times in the yeere shall all thy men children appeare before the Lord Iehouah.
Exodus 23:18	Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leauened bread: neyther shall the fatte of my sacrifice remayne vntill the morning.
Exodus 23:19	The first of the first fruites of thy lande thou shalt bring into the house of the Lord thy God: yet shalt thou not seeth a kid in his mothers milke.
Exodus 23:20	Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keepe thee in the way, and to bring thee to the place which I haue prepared.
Exodus 23:21	Beware of him, and heare his voyce, and prouoke him not: for he will not spare your misdeedes, because my name is in him.
Exodus 23:22	But if thou hearken vnto his voyce, and do all that I speake, the I wil be an enemie vnto thine enemies, and will afflict them that afflict thee.
Exodus 23:23	For mine Angel shall go before thee, and bring thee vnto the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, the Hiuites, and the Iebusites, and I will destroy them.
Exodus 23:24	Thou shalt not bow downe to their gods, neither serue them, nor doe after the workes of them: but vtterly ouerthrowe them, and breake in pieces their images.
Exodus 23:25	For ye shall serue the Lord your God, and he shall blesse thy bread and thy water, and I will take all sickenes away from the middes of thee.
Exodus 23:26	There shall none cast their fruite nor be baren in thy lande: the number of thy dayes will I fulfill.
Exodus 23:27	I will send my feare before thee, and will destroy all the people among whome thou shalt go: and I will make all thine enemies turne their backes vnto thee:
Exodus 23:28	And I will sende hornets before thee, which shall driue out the Hiuites, the Canaanites, and the Hittites from thy face.
Exodus 23:29	I will not cast them out from thy face in one yeere, least the land grow to a wildernes: and the beasts of the field multiplie against thee.
Exodus 23:30	By litle and litle I will driue them out from thy face, vntill thou increase, and inherite the lande.
Exodus 23:31	And I will make thy coastes from the red sea vnto the sea of the Philistims, and from the desert vnto the Riuer: for I will deliuer the inhabitants of the lande into your hande, and thou shalt driue them out from thy face.
Exodus 23:32	Thou shalt make no couenant with them, nor with their gods:
Exodus 23:33	Neither shall they dwell in thy lande, least they make thee sinne against me: for if thou serue their gods, surely it shall be thy destruction.
Exodus 24:1	Now hee had said vnto Moses, Come vp to the Lord, thou, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seuentie of the Elders of Israel, and yee shall worship a farre off.
Exodus 24:2	And Moses himselfe alone shall come neere to the Lord, but they shall not come neere, neither shall the people goe vp with him.
Exodus 24:3	Afterwarde Moses came and told the people all the wordes of the Lord, and all the lawes: and all the people answered with one voyce, and said, All the things which the Lord hath said, will we doe.
Exodus 24:4	And Moses wrote all the wordes of the Lord, and rose vp early, and set vp an altar vnder the mountaine, and twelue pillars according to the twelue tribes of Israel.
Exodus 24:5	And he sent young men of the children of Israel, which offered burnt offrings of bieues, and sacrificed peace offrings vnto the Lord.
Exodus 24:6	Then Moses tooke halfe of the blood, and put it in basens, and halfe of the blood he sprinckled on the altar.
Exodus 24:7	After he tooke the booke of the couenant, and read it in the audience of the people: who said, All that the Lord hath said, we will do, and be obedient.
Exodus 24:8	Then Moses tooke the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said, Behold, the blood of the couenant, which the Lord hath made with you concerning all these things.
Exodus 24:9	Then went vp Moses and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seuentie of the Elders of Israel.
Exodus 24:10	And they saw the God of Israel, and vnder his feete was as it were a worke of a Saphir stone, and as the very heauen when it is cleare.
Exodus 24:11	And vpon the nobles of the children of Israel he laide not his hande: also they sawe God, and did eate and drinke.
Exodus 24:12	And the Lord said vnto Moses, Come vp to me into the mountaine, and be there, and I will giue thee tables of stone, and the law and the commandement, which I haue written, for to teach them.
Exodus 24:13	Then Moses rose vp, and his minister Ioshua, and Moses went vp into the mountaine of God,
Exodus 24:14	And said vnto the Elders, Tary vs here, vntill we come againe vnto you: and beholde, Aaron, and Hur are with you: whosoeuer hath any matters, let him come to them.
Exodus 24:15	Then Moses went vp to the mount, and the cloude couered the mountaine,
Exodus 24:16	And the glorie of the Lord abode vpon mount Sinai, and the cloude couered it sixe dayes: and the seuenth day he called vnto Moses out of the middes of the cloude.
Exodus 24:17	And the sight of the glorie of the Lord was like consuming fire on the top of the moutaine, in the eyes of the children of Israel.
Exodus 24:18	And Moses entred into the middes of the cloude, and went vp to the mountaine: and Moses was in the mount fourtie dayes and fourty nightes.
Exodus 25:1	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 25:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, that they receiue an offring for me: of euery man, whose heart giueth it freely, ye shall take the offring for me.
Exodus 25:3	And this is the offring which ye shall take of them, golde, and siluer, and brasse,
Exodus 25:4	And blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linnen, and goates heare,
Exodus 25:5	And rammes skinnes coloured red, and the skinnes of badgers, and the wood Shittim,
Exodus 25:6	Oyle for the light, spices for anoynting oyle, and for the perfume of sweete sauour,
Exodus 25:7	Onix stones, and stones to be set in the Ephod, and in the brest plate.
Exodus 25:8	Also they shall make me a Sanctuarie, that I may dwell among them.
Exodus 25:9	According to all that I shewe thee, euen so shall ye make the forme of the Tabernacle, and the facion of all the instruments thereof.
Exodus 25:10	They shall make also an Arke of Shittim wood, two cubites and an halfe long, and a cubite and an halfe broade, and a cubite and an halfe hie.
Exodus 25:11	And thou shalt ouerlay it with pure golde: within and without shalt thou ouerlay it, and shalt make vpon it a crowne of golde rounde about.
Exodus 25:12	And thou shalt cast foure rings of golde for it, and put them in the foure corners thereof: that is, two rings shalbe on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side thereof.
Exodus 25:13	And thou shalt make barres of Shittim wood, and couer them with golde.
Exodus 25:14	Then thou shalt put the barres in the rings by the sides of the Arke, to beare the Arke with them.
Exodus 25:15	The barres shalbe in the rings of the Arke: they shall not be taken away from it.
Exodus 25:16	So thou shalt put in the Arke the Testimonie which I shall giue thee.
Exodus 25:17	Also thou shalt make a Mercie seate of pure golde, two cubites and an halfe long, and a cubite and an halfe broade.
Exodus 25:18	And thou shalt make two Cherubims of golde: of worke beaten out with the hammer shalt thou make the at ye two endes of the Merciseate.
Exodus 25:19	And the one Cherub shalt thou make at the one ende, and the other Cherub at the other ende: of the matter of the Mercieseate shall ye make the Cherubims, on the two endes thereof.
Exodus 25:20	And the Cherubims shall stretche their winges on hie, couering the Mercie seate with their winges, and their faces one to another: to the Mercie seate warde shall the faces of the Cherubims be.
Exodus 25:21	And thou shalt put the Mercieseate aboue vpon the Arke, and in the Arke thou shalt put the Testimonie, which I will giue thee,
Exodus 25:22	And there I will declare my selfe vnto thee, and from aboue ye Mercieseate betweene ye two Cherubims, which are vpon ye Arke of ye Testimonie, I wil tel thee al things which I wil giue thee in comandement vnto ye children of Israel.
Exodus 25:23	Thou shalt also make a Table of Shittim wood, of two cubites long, and one cubite broade, and a cubite and an halfe hie:
Exodus 25:24	And thou shalt couer it with pure gold, and make thereto a crowne of golde round about.
Exodus 25:25	Thou shalt also make vnto it a border of foure fingers roud about and thou shalt make a golden crowne round about the border thereof.
Exodus 25:26	After, thou shalt make for it foure ringes of golde, and shalt put the rings in the foure corners that are in the foure feete thereof:
Exodus 25:27	Ouer against the border shall the rings be for places for barres, to beare the Table.
Exodus 25:28	And thou shalt make the barres of Shittim wood, and shalt ouerlay them with golde, that the Table may be borne with them.
Exodus 25:29	Thou shalt make also dishes for it, and incense cuppes for it, and couerings for it, and goblets, wherewith it shall be couered, euen of fine golde shalt thou make them.
Exodus 25:30	And thou shalt set vpon the Table shewe bread before me continually.
Exodus 25:31	Also thou shalt make a Candlesticke of pure golde: of worke beaten out with the hammer shall the Candlesticke be made, his shaft, and his branches, his boules, his knops: and his floures shalbe of the same.
Exodus 25:32	Six braunches also shall come out of the sides of it: three branches of the Candlesticke out of the one side of it, and three branches of the Candlesticke out of the other side of it.
Exodus 25:33	Three boules like vnto almondes, one knop and one floure in one braunch: and three boules like almondes in the other branch, one knop and one floure: so throughout the sixe branches that come out of the Candlesticke.
Exodus 25:34	And in the shaft of the Candlesticke shalbe foure boules like vnto almondes, his knops and his floures.
Exodus 25:35	And there shalbe a knop vnder two branches made thereof: and a knop vnder two branches made thereof: and a knop vnder two branches made thereof, according to the sixe branches comming out of the Candlesticke.
Exodus 25:36	Their knops and their branches shall bee thereof. all this shalbe one beaten worke of pure golde.
Exodus 25:37	And thou shalt make the seuen lampes thereof: and the lampes thereof shalt thou put thereon, to giue light toward that that is before it.
Exodus 25:38	Also the snuffers and snuffedishes thereof shalbe of pure golde.
Exodus 25:39	Of a talent of fine gold shalt thou make it with all these instruments.
Exodus 25:40	Looke therefore that thou make them after their facion, that was shewed thee in the mountaine.
Exodus 26:1	Afterwarde thou shalt make the Tabernacle with tenne curtaines of fine twined linen, and blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet: and in them thou shalt make Cherubims of broydered worke.
Exodus 26:2	The length of one curtaine shalbe eight and twentie cubites, and the bredth of one curtaine, foure cubites: euery one of the curtaines shall haue one measure.
Exodus 26:3	Fiue curtaines shalbe coupled one to an other: and the other fiue curtaines shall be coupled one to another.
Exodus 26:4	And thou shalt make stringes of blew silke vpon the edge of the one curtaine, which is in the seluedge of the coupling: and likewise shalt thou make in the edge of the other curtaine in the seluedge, in the second coupling.
Exodus 26:5	Fiftie strings shalt thou make in one curtaine, and fiftie stringes shalt thou make in the edge of the curtaine, which is in the second coupling: ye stringes shalbe one right against another.
Exodus 26:6	Thou shalt make also fiftie taches of gold, and couple the curtaines one to another with the taches, and it shalbe one tabernacle.
Exodus 26:7	Also thou shalt make curtaines of goates heare, to be a couering vpon the Tabernacle: thou shalt make them to the number of eleuen curtaines.
Exodus 26:8	The length of a curtaine shall be thirtie cubites, and the breadth of a curtaine foure cubites: the eleuen curtaines shalbe of one measure.
Exodus 26:9	And thou shalt couple fiue curtaynes by themselues, and the sixe curtaines by themselues: but thou shalt double the sixt curtaine vpon the forefront of the couering.
Exodus 26:10	And thou shalt make fifty stringes in the edge of one curtayne, in the seluedge of the coupling, and fifty stringes in the edge of the other curtaine in the second coupling.
Exodus 26:11	Likewise thou shalt make fifty taches of brasse, and fasten them on the strings, and shalt couple the couering together, that it may be one.
Exodus 26:12	And the remnant that resteth in ye curtaines of the couering, euen the halfe curtaine that resteth, shalbe left at the backeside of the Tabernacle,
Exodus 26:13	That the cubite on the one side, and the cubite on the other side of that which is left in the legth of the curtaines of ye couering, may remaine on either side of the Tabernacle to couer it.
Exodus 26:14	Moreouer, for that couering thou shalt make a couering of rammes skinnes died red, and a couering of badgers skinnes aboue.
Exodus 26:15	Also thou shalt make boards for the Tabernacle of Shittim wood to stand vp.
Exodus 26:16	Ten cubites shalbe the length of a boarde, and a cubite and an halfe cubite the breadth of one boarde.
Exodus 26:17	Two tenons shalbe in one boarde set in order as the feete of a ladder, one against an other: thus shalt thou make for all the boardes of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 26:18	And thou shalt make boardes for the Tabernacle, euen twenty boardes on the South side, euen full South.
Exodus 26:19	And thou shalt make fourty sockets of siluer vnder the twentie boardes, two sockets vnder one boarde for his two tenons, and two sockets vnder an other boarde for his two tenons.
Exodus 26:20	In like maner on the other side of the Tabernacle towarde the North side shalbe twentie boardes,
Exodus 26:21	And their fourtie sockets of siluer, two sockets vnder one boarde, and two sockets vnder another board.
Exodus 26:22	And on the side of the Tabernacle, toward the West shalt thou make sixe boards.
Exodus 26:23	Also two boardes shalt thou make in the corners of the Tabernacle in the two sides.
Exodus 26:24	Also they shalbe ioyned beneath, and likewise they shalbe ioyned aboue to a ring: thus shall it be for them two: they shalbe for ye two corners.
Exodus 26:25	So they shalbe eight boardes hauing sockets of siluer, euen sixteene sockets, that is, two sockets vnder one board, and two sockets vnder an other boarde.
Exodus 26:26	The thou shalt make fiue barres of Shittim wood for the boardes of one side of the Tabernacle,
Exodus 26:27	And fiue barres for the boardes of the other side of the Tabernacle: also fiue barres for the boardes of the side of the Tabernacle toward the Westside.
Exodus 26:28	And the middle barre shall goe through the middes of the boards, from ende to ende.
Exodus 26:29	And thou shalt couer the boards with golde, and make their rings of golde, for places for the barres, and thou shalt couer the barres with golde.
Exodus 26:30	So thou shalt reare vp the Tabernacle, according to the facion thereof, which was shewed thee in the mount.
Exodus 26:31	Moreouer, thou shalt make a vaile of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen: thou shalt make it of broydred worke with Cherubims.
Exodus 26:32	And thou shalt hang it vpon foure pillars of Shittim wood couered with gold, (whose hookes shalbe of gold) stading vpon foure sockets of siluer.
Exodus 26:33	Afterward thou shalt hang the vaile on the hookes, that thou mayest bring in thither, that is (within the vaile) the arke of the Testimonie: and the vaile shall make you a separation betweene the Holy place and the most holy place.
Exodus 26:34	Also thou shalt put ye Mercy seate vpon the Arke of the testimonie in the most Holy place.
Exodus 26:35	And thou shalt set the Table without the vaile, and the Candlesticke ouer against the Table on the Southside of the Tabernacle, and thou shalt set the Table on the Northside.
Exodus 26:36	Also thou shalt make an hanging for the dore of ye Tabernacle of blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen wrought with needle.
Exodus 26:37	And thou shalt make for the hanging fiue pillars of Shittim, and couer them with gold: their heads shalbe of golde, and thou shalt cast fiue sockets of brasse for them.
Exodus 27:1	Moreouer thou shalt make the altar of Shittim wood, fiue cubites long and fiue cubites broade (the altar shall be foure square) and the height thereof three cubites.
Exodus 27:2	And thou shalt make it hornes in the foure corners thereof: the hornes shalbe of it selfe, and thou shalt couer it with brasse.
Exodus 27:3	Also thou shalt make his ashpannes for his ashes and his besoms, and his basens, and his flesh-hookes, and his censers: thou shalt make all the instruments thereof of brasse.
Exodus 27:4	And thou shalt make vnto it a grate like networke of brasse: also vpon that grate shalt thou make foure brasen rings vpon the foure corners thereof.
Exodus 27:5	And thou shalt put it vnder the compasse of the altar beneath, that the grate may be in the middes of the altar.
Exodus 27:6	Also thou shalt make barres for the altar, barres, I say, of Shittim wood, and shalt couer them with brasse.
Exodus 27:7	And the barres thereof shalbe put in the rings, the which barres shalbe vpon the two sides of the altar to beare it.
Exodus 27:8	Thou shalt make the altar holowe betweene the boardes: as God shewed thee in the mount, so shall they make it.
Exodus 27:9	Also thou shalt make the court of the Tabernacle in the Southside, euen full South: the court shall haue curtaines of fine twined linnen, of an hundreth cubites long, for one side,
Exodus 27:10	And it shall haue twentie pillars, with their twentie sockets of brasse: the heades of the pillars, and their filets shalbe siluer.
Exodus 27:11	Likewise on the Northside in length there shalbe hangings of an hundreth cubites long, and the twentie pillars thereof with their twentie sockets of brasse: the heades of the pillars and the filets shalbe siluer.
Exodus 27:12	And the breadth of the court on the Westside shall haue curtaines of fiftie cubites, with their ten pillars and their ten sockets.
Exodus 27:13	And the breadth of the court, Eastwarde full East shall haue fiftie cubites.
Exodus 27:14	Also hangings of fifteene cubites shalbe on the one side with their three pillars and their three sockets.
Exodus 27:15	Likewise on the other side shalbe hangings of fifteene cubites, with their three pillars and their three sockets.
Exodus 27:16	And in the gate of the court shalbe a vaile of twentie cubites, of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen wrought with needle, with the foure pillars thereof and their foure sockets.
Exodus 27:17	All the pillars of the court shall haue filets of siluer round about, with their heads of siluer, and their sockets of brasse.
Exodus 27:18	The length of the court shalbe an hundreth cubites, and the breadth fiftie at either ende, and the height fiue cubites, and the hangings of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brasse.
Exodus 27:19	Al the vessels of the Tabernacle for al maner seruice thereof, and all the pinnes thereof, and all the pinnes of the court shalbe brasse.
Exodus 27:20	And thou shalt commande the children of Israel, that they bring vnto thee pure oyle oliue beaten, for the light, that the lampes may alway burne.
Exodus 27:21	In the Tabernacle of the Congregation without the vaile, which is before the Testimony, shall Aaron and his sonnes dresse them from euening to morning before the Lord, for a statute for euer vnto their generations, to be obserued by the children of Israel.
Exodus 28:1	And cause thou thy brother Aaron to come vnto thee and his sonnes with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may serue me in the Priestes office: I meane Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar Aarons sonnes.
Exodus 28:2	Also thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, glorious and beautifull.
Exodus 28:3	Therefore thou shalt speake vnto al cunning men, whome I haue filled with the spirite of wisedome, that they make Aarons garments to consecrate him, that he may serue me in the Priestes office.
Exodus 28:4	Nowe these shall be the garments, which they shall make, a brest plate, and an Ephod, and a robe, and a broydred coate, a miter, and a girdle. so these holy garments shall they make for Aaron thy brother, and for his sonnes, that he may serue me in the Priests office.
Exodus 28:5	Therefore they shall take golde, and blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linnen,
Exodus 28:6	And they shall make the Ephod of gold, blewe silke, and purple, skarlet, and fine twined linen of broydred worke.
Exodus 28:7	The two shoulders thereof shalbe ioyned together by their two edges: so shall it be closed.
Exodus 28:8	And the embroydred garde of the same Ephod, which shalbe vpon him, shall be of the selfe same worke and stuffe, euen of golde, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 28:9	And thou shalt take two onix stones, and graue vpon them the names of the children of Israel:
Exodus 28:10	Sixe names of them vpon the one stone, and the sixe names that remaine, vpon the seconde stone, according to their generations.
Exodus 28:11	Thou shalt cause to graue the two stones according to the names of the children of Israel by a grauer of signets, that worketh and graueth in stone, and shalt make them to be set and embossed in golde.
Exodus 28:12	And thou shalt put the two stones vpon the shoulders of the Ephod, as stones of remebrance of the children of Israel: for Aaron shall beare their names before the Lord vpon his two shoulders for a remembrance.
Exodus 28:13	So thou shalt make bosses of golde,
Exodus 28:14	And two cheynes of fine golde at the ende, of wrethed worke shalt thou make them, and shalt fasten the wrethed cheynes vpon the bosses.
Exodus 28:15	Also thou shalt make the brest plate of iudgement with broydred worke: like the worke of the Ephod shalt thou make it: of gold, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen shalt thou make it.
Exodus 28:16	Foure square it shall be and double, an hand bredth long and an hand bredth broade.
Exodus 28:17	Then thou shalt set it full of places for stones, euen foure rowes of stones: the order shalbe this, a rubie, a topaze, and a carbuncle in the first rowe.
Exodus 28:18	And in the seconde rowe thou shalt set an emeraude, a saphir, and a diamonde.
Exodus 28:19	And in the third rowe a turkeis, an achate, and an hematite.
Exodus 28:20	And in the fourth rowe a chrysolite, an onix, and a iasper: and they shall be set in golde in their embossements.
Exodus 28:21	And the stones shall be according to the names of the children of Israel, twelue, according to their names, grauen as signets, euerye one after his name, and they shall bee for the twelue tribes.
Exodus 28:22	Then thou shalt make vpon the breast plate two cheines at the endes of wrethen worke of pure golde.
Exodus 28:23	Thou shalt make also vpon the brest plate two rings of golde, and put the two rings on the two endes of the brest plate.
Exodus 28:24	And thou shalt put the two wrethen chaynes of golde in the two rings in the endes of the brest plate.
Exodus 28:25	And the other two endes of the two wrethen cheines, thou shalt fasten in ye two embossements, and shalt put them vpon the shoulders of the Ephod on the foreside of it.
Exodus 28:26	Also thou shalt make two rings of gold, which thou shalt put in the two other endes of the brest plate, vpon the border thereof, towarde the inside of the Ephod.
Exodus 28:27	And two other rings of golde thou shalt make, and put them on the two sides of the Ephod, beneath in the forepart of it ouer against the coupling of it vpon the broydred garde of the Ephod.
Exodus 28:28	Thus they shall binde the brest plate by his rings vnto the rings of the Ephod, with a lace of blewe silke, that it may be fast vpon the broydred garde of the Ephod, and that the brest plate be not loosed from the Ephod.
Exodus 28:29	So Aaron shall beare the names of the children of Israel in the brest plate of iudgement vpon his heart, when he goeth into the holy place, for a remembrance continually before the Lord.
Exodus 28:30	Also thou shalt put in the brest plate of iudgement the Vrim and the Thummim, which shalbe vpon Aarons heart, when he goeth in before the Lord: and Aaron shall beare the iudgement of the children of Israel vpon his heart before the Lord continually.
Exodus 28:31	And thou shalt make the robe of the Ephod altogether of blewe silke.
Exodus 28:32	And the hole for his head shalbe in the middes of it, hauing an edge of wouen woorke rounde about the coller of it: so it shalbe as the coller of an habergeon that it rent not.
Exodus 28:33	And beneath vpon the skirtes thereof thou shalt make pomegranates of blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, round about the skirts thereof, and belles of gold betweene them round about:
Exodus 28:34	That is, a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate rounde about vpon the skirtes of the robe.
Exodus 28:35	So it shalbe vpon Aaron, when he ministreth, and his sound shalbe heard, when he goeth into the holy place before the Lord, and when he commeth out, and he shall not dye.
Exodus 28:36	Also thou shalt make a plate of pure golde, and graue thereon, as signets are grauen, Holines To The Lord,
Exodus 28:37	And thou shalt put it on a blew silke lace, and it shalbe vpon the miter: euen vpon the fore front of the miter shall it be.
Exodus 28:38	So it shalbe vpon Aarons forehead, that Aaron may beare the iniquitie of the offrings, which the children of Israel shall offer in all their holy offrings: and it shall be alwayes vpon his forehead, to make them acceptable before the Lord.
Exodus 28:39	Likewise thou shalt embroyder the fine line coat, and thou shalt make a miter of fine line, but thou shalt make a girdell of needle worke.
Exodus 28:40	Also thou shalt make for Aarons sonnes coates, and thou shalt make the girdels, and bonets shalt thou make them for glorie and comelinesse.
Exodus 28:41	And thou shalt put them vpon Aaron thy brother, and on his sonnes with him, and shalt anoint them, and fill their handes, and sanctifie them, that they may minister vnto me in the Priestes office.
Exodus 28:42	Thou shalt also make them linen breeches to couer their priuities: from the loynes vnto the thighs shall they reache.
Exodus 28:43	And they shalbe for Aaron and his sonnes when they come into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, or whe they come vnto the altar to minister in the holy place, that they commit not iniquitie, and so die. This shalbe a lawe for euer vnto him and to his seede after him.
Exodus 29:1	This thing also shalt thou do vnto them whe thou consecratest them to be my Priestes, Take a yong calfe, and two rams without blemish,
Exodus 29:2	And vnleauened bread and cakes vnleauened tempered with oyle, and wafers vnleauened anoynted with oyle: (of fine wheate flowre shalt thou make them)
Exodus 29:3	Then thou shalt put them in one basket, and present them in the basket with the calfe and the two rammes,
Exodus 29:4	And shalt bring Aaron and his sonnes vnto the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and wash them with water.
Exodus 29:5	Also thou shalt take the garments, and put vpon Aaron the tunicle, and the robe of the Ephod, and the Ephod, and the brest plate, and shalt close them to him with the broidred garde of the Ephod.
Exodus 29:6	Then thou shalt put the miter vpon his head, and shalt put the holy crowne vpon ye miter.
Exodus 29:7	And thou shalt take the anoynting oyle, and shalt powre vpon his head, and anoynt him.
Exodus 29:8	And thou shalt bring his sonnes, and put coates vpon them,
Exodus 29:9	And shalt girde them with girdles, both Aaron and his sonnes: and shalt put the bonets on them, and the Priestes office shalbe theirs for a perpetuall lawe: thou shalt also fill the hands of Aaron, and the hands of his sonnes.
Exodus 29:10	After, thou shalt present the calfe before the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and Aaron and his sonnes shall put their handes vpon the head of the calfe.
Exodus 29:11	So thou shalt kill the calfe before the Lord, at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Exodus 29:12	Then thou shalt take of the blood of the calfe, and put it vpon the hornes of the altar with thy finger, and shalt powre al the rest of the blood at the foote of the altar.
Exodus 29:13	Also thou shalt take all the fat that couereth the inwardes, and the kall, that is on the liuer, and the two kidneis, and the fat that is vpon them, and shalt burne them vpon the altar.
Exodus 29:14	But the flesh of the calfe, and his skin, and his doung shalt thou burne with fire without the hoste: it is a sinne offring.
Exodus 29:15	Thou shalt also take one ramme, and Aron and his sonnes shall put their hands vpon the head of the ramme.
Exodus 29:16	Then thou shalt kill the ramme, and take his blood, and sprinkle it round about vpon the altar,
Exodus 29:17	And thou shalt cut the ramme in pieces, and wash the inwards of him and his legges, and shalt put them vpon the pieces thereof, and vpon his head.
Exodus 29:18	So thou shalt burne the whole ram vpon the altar: for it is a burnt offering vnto the Lord for a sweete sauour: it is an offering made by fire vnto the Lord.
Exodus 29:19	And thou shalt take the other ramme, and Aaron and his sonnes shall put their handes vpon the head of the ramme.
Exodus 29:20	Then thou shalt kill the ramme, and take of his blood and put it vpon the lappe of Aarons eare, and vpon the lappe of the right eare of his sonnes, and vpon the thumbe of their right hand, and vpon the great toe of their right foote, and shalt sprinkle the blood vpon ye altar roud about.
Exodus 29:21	And thou shalt take of the blood that is vpon the altar, and of the anoynting oyle, and shalt sprinkle it vpon Aaron, and vpon his garments, and vpon his sonnes, and vpon the garments of his sonnes with him: so he shall be halowed, and his clothes, and his sonnes, and the garments of his sonnes with him.
Exodus 29:22	Also thou shalt take of the rammes ye fatte and the rumpe, euen the fat that couereth the inwards, and the kall of the liuer, and the two kidneis, and the fat that is vpon them, and the right shoulder, (for it is the ramme of consecration)
Exodus 29:23	And one loafe of bread, and one cake of bread tempered with oyle, and one wafer, out of the basket of the vnleauened bread that is before the Lord.
Exodus 29:24	And thou shalt put al this in the handes of Aaron, and in the handes of his sonnes, and shalt shake them to and from before the Lord.
Exodus 29:25	Againe, thou shalt receyue them of their handes, and burne them vpon the altar besides the burnt offring for a sweete sauour before ye Lord: for this is an offering made by fire vnto the Lord.
Exodus 29:26	Likewise thou shalt take the brest of the ram of the consecration, which is for Aaron, and shalt shake it to and from before the Lord and it shalbe thy part.
Exodus 29:27	And thou shalt sanctifie the brest of the shaken offering, and the shoulder of the heaue offering, which was shaken to and from, and which was heaued vp of the ramme of the consecration, which was for Aaron, and which was for his sonnes.
Exodus 29:28	And Aaron and his sonnes shall haue it by a statute for euer, of the children of Israel: for it is an heaue offering, and it shall be an heaue offering of the children of Israel, of their peace offerings, euen their heaue offering to the Lord.
Exodus 29:29	And the holy garmets, which appertaine to Aaron, shall bee his sonnes after him, to bee anoynted therein, and to bee consecrate therein.
Exodus 29:30	That sonne that shalbe Priest in his steade, shall put them on seuen dayes, when he commeth into the Tabernacle of the Congregation to minister in the holy place.
Exodus 29:31	So thou shalt take the ram of the consecration, and seeth his flesh in the holy place.
Exodus 29:32	And Aaron and his sonnes shall eate the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket, at the doore of ye Tabernacle of ye Congregation.
Exodus 29:33	So they shall eate these thinges, whereby their attonement was made, to consecrate them, and to sanctifie them: but a stranger shall not eate thereof, because they are holy things.
Exodus 29:34	Now if ought of the flesh of the consecration, or of the bread remaine vnto the morning, then thou shalt burne the rest with fire: it shall not be eaten, because it is an holie thing.
Exodus 29:35	Therefore shalt thou doe thus vnto Aaron and vnto his sonnes, according to all things, which I haue commanded thee: seuen dayes shalt thou consecrate them,
Exodus 29:36	And shalt offer euery day a calfe for a sinne offring, for reconciliation: and thou shalt cleanse the altar, when thou hast offred vpon it for reconciliation, and shalt annoynt it, to sanctifie it.
Exodus 29:37	Seuen dayes shalt thou cleanse the altar, and sanctifie it, so the altar shalbe most holy: and whatsoeuer toucheth the altar, shalbe holy.
Exodus 29:38	Nowe this is that which thou shalt present vpon the altar: euen two lambes of one yere olde, day by day continually.
Exodus 29:39	The one lambe thou shalt present in the morning, and the other lambe thou shalt present at euen.
Exodus 29:40	And with the one lambe, a tenth part of fine floure mingled with the fourth part of an Hin of beaten oyle, and the fourth part of an Hin of wine, for a drinke offring.
Exodus 29:41	And the other lambe thou shalt present at euen: thou shalt doe thereto according to the offring of the morning, and according to the drinke offring thereof, to be a burnt offring for a sweete sauour vnto, the Lord.
Exodus 29:42	This shalbe a continuall burnt offring in your generations at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the Lord, where I wil make appoyntment with you, to speake there vnto thee.
Exodus 29:43	There I will appoynt with the children of Israel, and the place shall bee sanctified by my glorie.
Exodus 29:44	And I will sanctifie the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the altar: I will sanctifie also Aaron and his sonnes to be my Priests,
Exodus 29:45	And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will bee their God.
Exodus 29:46	Then shall they knowe that I am ye Lord their God, that brought them out of the lande of Egypt, that I might dwell among them: I am the Lord their God.
Exodus 30:1	Fvrthermore thou shalt make an altar for sweete perfume, of Shittim wood thou shalt make it.
Exodus 30:2	The length therof a cubite and the breadth thereof a cubite (it shalbe foure square) and the height thereof two cubites: the hornes thereof shalbe of the same,
Exodus 30:3	And thou shalt ouerlay it with fine golde, both the toppe therof and the sides thereof round about, and his hornes: also thou shalt make vnto it a crowne of gold round about.
Exodus 30:4	Besides this thou shalt make vnder this crowne two golden rings on either side: euen on euery side shalt thou make them, that they may be as places for the barres to beare it withall.
Exodus 30:5	The which barres thou shalt make of Shittim wood, and shalt couer them with golde.
Exodus 30:6	After thou shalt set it before the vaile, that is neere the Arke of Testimonie, before the Merciseate that is vpon the Testimonie, where I will appoynt with thee.
Exodus 30:7	And Aaron shall burne thereon sweete incense euery morning: when hee dresseth the lampes thereof, shall he burne it.
Exodus 30:8	Likewise at eue, when Aaron setteth vp the lampes thereof, he shall burne incense: this perfume shalbe perpetually before ye Lord, throughout your generations.
Exodus 30:9	Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice, nor offring, neither powre any drinke offring thereon.
Exodus 30:10	And Aaron shall make reconciliation vpon the hornes of it once in a yere with the blood of the sinne offring in the day of reconciliation: once in the yeere shall hee make reconciliation vpon it throughout your generations: this is most holy vnto the Lord.
Exodus 30:11	Afterward the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 30:12	When thou takest the summe of the children of Israel after their nomber, then they shall giue euery man a redemption of his life vnto the Lord, when thou tellest them, that there bee no plague among the when thou countest them.
Exodus 30:13	This shall euery man giue, that goeth into the nomber, halfe a shekel, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie: (a shekel is twentie gerahs) the halfe shekel shalbe an offring to the Lord.
Exodus 30:14	All that are nombred from twentie yeere olde and aboue, shall giue an offring to the Lord.
Exodus 30:15	The rich shall not passe, and the poore shall not diminish from halfe a shekel, when ye shall giue an offring vnto the Lord, for the redemption of your liues.
Exodus 30:16	So thou shalt take the money of the redemption of the children of Israel, and shalt put it vnto the vse of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, that it may be a memoriall vnto the children of Israel before the Lord for the redemption of your liues.
Exodus 30:17	Also the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 30:18	Thou shalt also make a lauer of brasse, and his foote of brasse to wash, and shalt put it betweene the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the Altar, and shalt put water therein.
Exodus 30:19	For Aaron and his sonnes shall wash their hands and their feete thereat.
Exodus 30:20	When they go into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, or when they goe vnto the Altar to minister and to make the perfume of ye burnt offring to the Lord, they shall wash themselues with water, lest they die.
Exodus 30:21	So they shall wash their handes and their feete that they die not: and this shall be to them an ordinance for euer, both vnto him and to his seede throughout their generations.
Exodus 30:22	Also the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 30:23	Take thou also vnto thee, principall spices of the most pure myrrhe fiue hundreth shekels, of sweete cinamon halfe so much, that is, two hundreth and fiftie, and of sweete calamus, two hundreth, and fiftie:
Exodus 30:24	Also of cassia fiue hundreth, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, and of oyle oliue an Hin.
Exodus 30:25	So thou shalt make of it the oyle of holie oyntment, euen a most precious oyntment after the arte of the Apothecarie: this shalbe the oyle of holy oyntment.
Exodus 30:26	And thou shalt anoynt the Tabernacle of the Congregation therewith, and the Arke of the Testimonie:
Exodus 30:27	Also the Table, and al the instruments thereof, and the Candlesticke, with all the instruments thereof, and the altar of incense:
Exodus 30:28	Also the Altar of burnt offring with al his instruments, and the lauer and his foote.
Exodus 30:29	So thou shalt sanctifie them, and they shalbe most holy: all that shall touch them, shalbe holy.
Exodus 30:30	Thou shalt also anoint Aaron and his sonnes, and shalt consecrate them, that they may minister vnto me in the Priests office.
Exodus 30:31	Moreouer thou shalt speake vnto the children of Israel, saying, This shalbe an holy oynting oyle vnto me, throughout your generations.
Exodus 30:32	None shall anoynt, mans flesh therewith, neither shall ye make any composition like vnto it: for it is holy, and shalbe holy vnto you.
Exodus 30:33	Whosoeuer shall make the like oyntment, or whosoeuer shall put any of it vpon a stranger, euen he shalbe cut off from his people.
Exodus 30:34	And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Take vnto thee these spices, pure myrrhe and cleare gumme and galbanum, these odours with pure frankincense, of eche like weight:
Exodus 30:35	Then thou shalt make of them perfume composed after the arte of the apothecarie, mingled together, pure and holy.
Exodus 30:36	And thou shalt beate it to pouder, and shalt put of it before the Arke of the Testimonie in the Tabernacle of ye Cogregatio, where I wil make appointmet with thee: it shalbe vnto you most holy.
Exodus 30:37	And ye shall not make vnto you any composition like this perfume, which thou shalt make: it shalbe vnto thee holy for the Lord.
Exodus 30:38	Whosoeuer shall make like vnto that to smelll thereto, euen he shalbe cut off from his people.
Exodus 31:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 31:2	Behold, I haue called by name, Bezaleel the sonne of Vri, the sonne of Hur of the tribe of Iudah,
Exodus 31:3	Whom I haue filled with the Spirit of God, in wisedome, and in vnderstanding and in knowledge and in all workmanship:
Exodus 31:4	To finde out curious workes to worke in golde, and in siluer, and in brasse,
Exodus 31:5	Also in the arte to set stones, and to carue in timber, and to worke in all maner of workmaship.
Exodus 31:6	And behold, I haue ioyned with him Aholiab the sonne of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan, and in the hearts of all that are wise hearted, haue I put wisdome to make all that I haue commanded thee:
Exodus 31:7	That is, the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the Arke of the Testimonie, and the Merciseate that shalbe therevpon, with all instruments of the Tabernacle:
Exodus 31:8	Also the Table and the instruments thereof, and the pure Candlesticke with all his instruments, and the Altar of perfume:
Exodus 31:9	Likewise the Altar of burnt offring with al his instruments, and the Lauer with his foote:
Exodus 31:10	Also the garments of the ministration, and ye holy garments for Aaron ye Priest, and the garmets of his sonnes, to minister in the Priestes office,
Exodus 31:11	And the anoynting oyle, and sweete perfume for the Sanctuarie: according to all that I haue commanded thee, shall they do.
Exodus 31:12	Afterwarde the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 31:13	Speake thou also vnto the children of Israel, and say, Notwithstanding keepe yee my Sabbaths: for it is a signe betweene me and you in your generations, that ye may know that I the Lord do sanctifie you.
Exodus 31:14	Ye shall therefore keepe the Sabbath: for it is holy vnto you: he that defileth it, shall die the death: therefore whosoeuer worketh therin, the same person shalbe euen cut off from among his people.
Exodus 31:15	Sixe dayes shall men worke, but in the seuenth day is the Sabbath of the holy rest to the Lord: whosoeuer doeth any worke in the Sabbath day, shall dye the death.
Exodus 31:16	Wherfore the children of Israel shall keepe the Sabbath, that they may obserue the rest throughout their generations for an euerlasting couenant.
Exodus 31:17	It is a signe betweene me and the children of Israel for euer: for in sixe dayes the Lord made the heauen and the earth, and in the seuenth day he ceased, and rested.
Exodus 31:18	Thus (when the Lord had made an ende of communing with Moses vpon mount Sinai) he gaue him two Tables of the Testimonie, euen tables of stone, written with the finger of God.
Exodus 32:1	Bvt when the people sawe, that Moses taryed long or he came downe from the mountaine, the people gathered themselues together against Aaron, and sayde vnto him, Vp, make vs gods to goe before vs: for of this Moses (the man that brought vs out of the land of Egypt) we knowe not what is become of him.
Exodus 32:2	And Aaron said vnto them, Plucke off the golden earings, which are in the eares of your wiues, of your sonnes, and of your daughters, and bring them vnto me.
Exodus 32:3	Then all ye people pluckt from them selues the golden earings, which were in their eares, and they brought them vnto Aaron.
Exodus 32:4	Who receiued them at their handes, and facioned it with the grauing toole, and made of it a molte calfe: then they said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee out of ye lad of Egypt
Exodus 32:5	When Aaron sawe that, he made an Altar before it: and Aaron proclaimed, saying, To morow shalbe the holy day of the Lord.
Exodus 32:6	So they rose vp the next day in the morning, and offred burnt offerings, and brought peace offrings: also the people sate them downe to eate and drinke, and rose vp to play.
Exodus 32:7	Then the Lord said vnto Moses, Go, get thee downe: for thy people which thou hast brought out of the land of Egypt, hath corrupted their wayes.
Exodus 32:8	They are soone turned out of the way, which I commanded them: for they haue made them a molten calfe and haue worshipped it, and haue offered thereto, saying, These be thy gods, O Israel, which haue brought thee out of the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 32:9	Againe the Lord said vnto Moses, I haue seene this people, and beholde, it is a stiffe necked people.
Exodus 32:10	Nowe therefore let mee alone, that my wrath may waxe hote against them, for I wil consume the: but I wil make of thee a mighty people.
Exodus 32:11	But Moses praied vnto the Lord his God, and said, O Lord, why doeth thy wrath waxe hote against thy people, which thou hast brought out of the lande of Egypt, with great power and with a mightie hand?
Exodus 32:12	Wherefore shall the Egyptians speake, and say, He hath brought them out maliciously for to slay them in the mountaines, and to consume them from the earth? turne from thy fearce wrath, and change thy minde from this euill towarde thy people.
Exodus 32:13	Remember Abraham, Izhak, and Israel thy seruants, to whom thou swarest by thine owne selfe, and saydest vnto them, I wil multiply your seede, as the starres of the heauen, and all this land, that I haue spoken of, wil I giue vnto your seede, and they shall inherit it for euer.
Exodus 32:14	Then the Lord changed his minde from the euil, which he threatned to do vnto his people.
Exodus 32:15	So Moses returned and went downe from the mountaine with the two Tables of the Testimonie in his hande: the Tables were written on both their sides, euen on the one side and on the other were they written.
Exodus 32:16	And these Tables were the worke of God, and this writing was the writing of God grauen in the Tables.
Exodus 32:17	And when Ioshua heard the noyse of the people, as they shouted, he said vnto Moses, There is a noyse of warre in the hoste.
Exodus 32:18	Who answered, It is not the noyse of them that haue the victorie, nor the noyse of them that are ouercome: but I do heare ye noyse of singing.
Exodus 32:19	Nowe, as soone as he came neere vnto the hoste, he sawe the calfe and the dancing: so Moses wrath waxed hote, and he cast the Tables out of his handes, and brake them in pieces beneath the mountaine.
Exodus 32:20	After, he tooke the calfe, which they had made, and burned it in the fire, and ground it vnto powder, and strowed it vpon the water, and made the children of Israel drinke of it.
Exodus 32:21	Also Moses said vnto Aaron, What did this people vnto thee, that thou hast brought so great a sinne vpon them?
Exodus 32:22	Then Aaron answered, Let not the wrath of my Lord waxe fearce: Thou knowest this people, that they are euen set on mischiefe.
Exodus 32:23	And they sayde vnto me, Make vs gods to go before vs: for we knowe not what is become of this Moses (the man that brought vs out of the land of Egypt.)
Exodus 32:24	Then I sayde to them, Ye that haue golde, plucke it off: and they brought it me, and I did cast it into the fire, and thereof came this calfe.
Exodus 32:25	Moses therefore sawe that the people were naked (for Aaron had made them naked vnto their shame among their enemies)
Exodus 32:26	And Moses stoode in ye gate of the campe, and sayde, Who pertaineth to the Lord? let him come to mee. And all the sonnes of Leui gathered themselues vnto him.
Exodus 32:27	Then he said vnto them, Thus sayth ye Lord God of Israel, Put euery man his sworde by his side: go to and from, from gate to gate, through the hoste, and slay euery man his brother, and euery man his companion, and euery man his neighbour.
Exodus 32:28	So the children of Leui did as Moses had commanded: and there fel of the people the same day about three thousand men.
Exodus 32:29	(For Moses had said, Cosecrate your hands vnto the Lord this day, euen euery man vpon his sonne, and vpon his brother, that there may be giuen you a blessing this day)
Exodus 32:30	And when the morning came, Moses sayde vnto the people, Yee haue committed a grieuous crime: but now I wil goe vp to the Lord, if I may pacifie him for your sinne.
Exodus 32:31	Moses therefore went againe vnto ye Lord, and said, Oh, this people haue sinned a great sinne, and haue made them gods of golde.
Exodus 32:32	Therefore now if thou pardon their sinne, thy mercy shall appeare: but if thou wilt not, I pray thee, rase me out of thy booke, which thou hast written.
Exodus 32:33	Then the Lord sayd to Moses, Whosoeuer hath sinned against me, I will put out of my booke.
Exodus 32:34	Go nowe therefore, bring the people vnto the place which I commanded thee: behold, mine Angel shall goe before thee, but yet in the day of my visitation I wil visite their sinne vpon them.
Exodus 32:35	So the Lord plagued the people, because they caused Aaron to make ye calfe which he made.
Exodus 33:1	Afterward the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Depart, goe vp from hence, thou, and the people (which thou hast brought vp out of lande of Egypt) vnto the lande which I sware vnto Abraham, to Izhak and to Iaakob, saying, Vnto thy seede will I giue it.
Exodus 33:2	And I will send an Angel before thee and will cast out the Canaanites, the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, the Hiuites, and the Iebusites:
Exodus 33:3	To a lande, I say, that floweth with milke and hony: for I will not goe vp with thee, because thou art a stiffe necked people, least I consume thee in the way.
Exodus 33:4	And when the people heard this euill tydings, they sorowed, and no man put on his best rayment.
Exodus 33:5	(For the Lord had said to Moses, Say vnto the children of Israel, Ye are a stiffe necked people, I wil come suddenly vpon thee, and consume thee: therefore now put thy costly rayment from thee, that I may know what to do vnto thee)
Exodus 33:6	So the children of Israel layed their good raiment from them, after Moses came downe from the mount Horeb.
Exodus 33:7	Then Moses tooke his tabernacle, and pitched it without the host farre off from the hoste, and called it Ohel-moed. And whe any did seeke to the Lord, he went out vnto the Tabernacle of the Congregation, which was without the hoste.
Exodus 33:8	And when Moses went out vnto the Tabernacle, all the people rose vp, and stood euery man at his tent doore, and looked after Moses, vntil he was gone into the Tabernacle.
Exodus 33:9	And assoone as Moses was entred into the Tabernacle, the cloudie pillar descended and stood at the doore of the Tabernacle, and the Lord talked with Moses.
Exodus 33:10	Nowe when all the people saw the cloudie pillar stand at the Tabernacle doore, all the people rose vp, and worshipped euery man in his tent doore.
Exodus 33:11	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, face to face, as a man speaketh vnto his friende. After he turned againe into the hoste, but his seruant Ioshua the sonne of Nun a yong man, departed not out of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 33:12	Then Moses sayde vnto the Lord, See, thou sayest vnto me, Leade this people forth, and thou hast not shewed me whom thou wilt sende with mee: thou hast sayde moreouer, I knowe thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight.
Exodus 33:13	Nowe therefore, I pray thee, if I haue founde fauour in thy sight, shewe mee nowe thy way, that I may knowe thee, and that I may finde grace in thy sight: consider also that this nation is thy people.
Exodus 33:14	And he answered, My presence shall go with thee, and I will giue thee rest.
Exodus 33:15	Then he sayd vnto him, If thy presence go not with vs, cary vs not hence.
Exodus 33:16	And wherein nowe shall it be knowen, that I and thy people haue found fauour in thy sight? shall it not be when thou goest with vs? so I, and thy people shall haue preeminence before all the people that are vpon the earth.
Exodus 33:17	And the Lord sayde vnto Moses, I will doe this also that thou hast saide: for thou hast founde grace in my sight, and I knowe thee by name.
Exodus 33:18	Againe he sayde, I beseech thee, shewe me thy glory.
Exodus 33:19	And he answered, I wil make all my good go before thee, and I wil proclaime the Name of the Lord before thee: for I will shewe mercy to whom I will shewe mercy, and will haue compassion on whom I will haue compassion.
Exodus 33:20	Furthermore he sayde, Thou canst not see my face, for there shall no man see me, and liue.
Exodus 33:21	Also the Lord sayd, Behold, there is a place by me, and thou shalt stand vpon the rocke:
Exodus 33:22	And while my glory passeth by, I will put thee in a cleft of the rocke, and will couer thee with mine hand whiles I passe by.
Exodus 33:23	After I will take away mine hande, and thou shalt see my backe parts: but my face shall not be seene.
Exodus 34:1	And the Lord saide vnto Moses, Hewe thee two Tables of stone, like vnto the first, and I will write vpon the Tables the wordes that were in the first Tables, which thou brakest in pieces.
Exodus 34:2	And be ready in ye morning, that thou mayest come vp earely vnto the mount of Sinai, and waite there for me in the top of the mount.
Exodus 34:3	But let no man come vp with thee, neither let any man be seene throughout all the mount, neyther let the sheepe nor cattell feede before this mount.
Exodus 34:4	Then Moses hewed two Tables of stone like vnto the first, and rose vp earely in the morning, and went vp vnto the mount of Sinai, as the Lord had commanded him, and tooke in his hande two Tables of stone.
Exodus 34:5	And the Lord descended in the cloude, and stoode with him there, and proclaimed the name of the Lord.
Exodus 34:6	So the Lord passed before his face, and cried, The Lord, the Lord, strong, mercifull, and gracious, slowe to anger, and abundant in goodnesse and trueth,
Exodus 34:7	Reseruing mercy for thousands, forgiuing iniquitie, and transgression and sinne, and not making the wicked innocent, visiting the iniquitie of the fathers vpon ye children, and vpon childrens children, vnto the third and fourth generation.
Exodus 34:8	Then Moses made haste and bowed him selfe to the earth, and worshipped,
Exodus 34:9	And sayde, O Lord, I pray thee, If I haue founde grace in thy sight, that the Lord woulde nowe goe with vs (for it is a stiffe necked people) and pardon our iniquitie and our sinne, and take vs for thine inheritance.
Exodus 34:10	And he answered, Behold, I will make a couenant before all thy people, and will do marueiles, such as haue not bene done in all the worlde, neyther in all nations: and all the people among whom thou art, shall see the worke of the Lord: for it is a terrible thing that I will do with thee.
Exodus 34:11	Keepe diligently that which I commande thee this day: Beholde, I will cast out before thee the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Hiuites, and the Iebusites.
Exodus 34:12	Take heede to thy selfe, that thou make no compact with ye inhabitantes of the land whither thou goest, least they be the cause of ruine among you:
Exodus 34:13	But yee shall ouerthrowe their altars, and breake their images in pieces, and cut downe their groues,
Exodus 34:14	(For thou shalt bow downe to none other god, because the Lord, whose Name is Ielous, is a ielous God)
Exodus 34:15	Lest thou make a compact with the inhabitantes of the lande, and when they goe a whoring after their gods, and doe sacrifice vnto their gods, some man call thee, and thou eate of his sacrifice:
Exodus 34:16	And least thou take of their daughters vnto thy sonnes, and their daughters goe a whoring after their gods, and make thy sonnes goe a whoring after their gods.
Exodus 34:17	Thou shalt make thee no gods of metall.
Exodus 34:18	The feast of vnleauened bread shalt thou keepe: seuen dayes shalt thou eate vnleauened bread, as I commanded thee, in ye time of the moneth of Abib: for in the moneth of Abib thou camest out of Egypt.
Exodus 34:19	Euery male, that first openeth the wombe, shalbe mine: also all the first borne of thy flocke shalbe rekoned mine, both of beeues and sheepe.
Exodus 34:20	But ye first of ye asse thou shalt bie out with a lambe: and if thou redeeme him not, then thou shalt breake his necke: all the first borne of thy sonnes shalt thou redeeme, and none shall appeare before me emptie.
Exodus 34:21	Six dayes shalt thou worke, and in the seuenth day thou shalt rest: both in earing time, and in the haruest thou shalt rest.
Exodus 34:22	Thou shalt also obserue the feast of weekes in the time of ye first fruits of wheate haruest, and the feast of gathering fruites in the ende of the yere.
Exodus 34:23	Thrise in a yere shall all your men children appeare before the Lord Iehouah God of Israel.
Exodus 34:24	For I wil cast out the nations before thee, and enlarge thy coasts, so that no man shall desire thy land, whe thou shalt come vp to appeare before the Lord thy God thrise in the yeere.
Exodus 34:25	Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leauen, neither shall ought of the sacrifice of the feast of Passeouer be left vnto the morning.
Exodus 34:26	The first ripe fruites of thy land thou shalt bring vnto the house of the Lord thy God: yet shalt thou not seethe a kid in his mothers milke.
Exodus 34:27	And the Lord said vnto Moses, Write thou these words: for after the tenour of these words I haue made a couenant with thee and with Israel.
Exodus 34:28	So hee was there with the Lord fourtie dayes and fourtie nights, and did neither eat bread nor drinke water: and hee wrote in the Tables the wordes of the couenant, euen the tenne commandements.
Exodus 34:29	So when Moses came downe from mount Sinai, the two Tables of the Testimonie were in Moses hande, as hee descended from the mount: (nowe Moses wist not that the skinne of his face shone bright, after that God had talked with him.
Exodus 34:30	And Aaron and all the children of Israel looked vpon Moses, and beholde, the skin of his face shone bright, and they were afraid to come neere him)
Exodus 34:31	But Moses called them: and Aaron and all the chiefe of the congregation returned vnto him: and Moses talked with them.
Exodus 34:32	And afterwarde all the children of Israel came neere, and he charged them with al that the Lord had said vnto him in mount Sinai.
Exodus 34:33	So Moses made an end of comuning with them, and had put a couering vpon his face.
Exodus 34:34	But, when Moses came before the Lord to speake with him, he tooke off the couering vntill he came out: then he came out, and spake vnto the children of Israel that which he was commanded.
Exodus 34:35	And the children of Israel sawe the face of Moses, howe the skin of Moses face shone bright: therefore Moses put the couering vpon his face, vntill he went to speake with God.
Exodus 35:1	Then Moses assembled all the Congregation of the children of Israel, and sayd vnto them, These are the wordes which the Lord hath commanded, that ye should do them:
Exodus 35:2	Six dayes thou shalt work, but the seuenth day shall bee vnto you the holy Sabbath of rest vnto the Lord: whosoeuer doth any worke therein, shall die.
Exodus 35:3	Ye shall kindle no fire throughout all your habitations vpon the Sabbath day.
Exodus 35:4	Againe, Moses spake vnto all the Congregation of the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which the Lord commandeth, saying,
Exodus 35:5	Take from among you an offering vnto the Lord: whosoeuer is of a willing heart, let him bring this offring to the Lord, namely golde, and siluer, and brasse:
Exodus 35:6	Also blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linen, and goates heare,
Exodus 35:7	And rams skins died red, and badgers skins with Shittim wood:
Exodus 35:8	Also oyle for light, and spices for the anointing oyle, and for the sweete incense,
Exodus 35:9	And onix stones, and stones to be set in the Ephod, and in the brest plate.
Exodus 35:10	And all the wise hearted among you, shall come and make all that the Lord hath commanded:
Exodus 35:11	That is, the Tabernacle, that pauilion thereof, and his couering, and his taches and his boards, his barres, his pillars and his sockets,
Exodus 35:12	The Arke, and the barres thereof ye Merci-seate, and the vaile that couereth it,
Exodus 35:13	The Table, and the barres of it, and all the instruments thereof, and the shewe bread:
Exodus 35:14	Also the Candlesticke of light and his instruments, and his lampes with the oyle for the light:
Exodus 35:15	Likewise the Altar of perfume and his barres, and the anoynting oyle, and the sweete incense, and the vaile of the doore at the entring in of the Tabernacle,
Exodus 35:16	The Altar of burnt offering with his brasen grate, his barres and all his instruments, the Lauer and his foote,
Exodus 35:17	The hangings of the court, his pillars and his sockets, and the vaile of the gate of the court,
Exodus 35:18	The pinnes of the Tabernacle, and the pinnes of the court with their cordes,
Exodus 35:19	The ministring garments to minister in the holy place, and the holy garments for Aaron the Priest, and the garmentes of his sonnes, that they may minister in the Priests office.
Exodus 35:20	Then all the Congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.
Exodus 35:21	And euery one, whose heart encouraged him, and euery one, whose spirit made him willing, came and brought an offring to the Lord, for the worke of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and for all his vses, and for the holy garments.
Exodus 35:22	Both men and women, as many as were free hearted, came and brought taches and earings, and rings, and bracelets, all were iewels of golde: and euery one that offered an offring of gold vnto the Lord:
Exodus 35:23	Euery man also, which had blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linen, and goates heare, and rammes skinnes died red, and badgers skins, brought them.
Exodus 35:24	All that offered an oblation of siluer and of brasse, brought the offring vnto the Lord: and euery one, that had Shittim wood for any maner worke of the ministration, brought it.
Exodus 35:25	And all the women that were wise hearted, did spin with their hands, and brought ye spun worke, euen the blewe silke, and the purple, the skarlet, and the fine linen.
Exodus 35:26	Likewise al the women, whose hearts were moued with knowledge, spun goates heare.
Exodus 35:27	And ye rulers brought onix stones, and stones to be set in the Ephod, and in the brest plate:
Exodus 35:28	Also spice, and oyle for light, and for the anoynting oyle, and for the sweete perfume.
Exodus 35:29	Euery man and woman of the children of Israel, whose hearts moued the willingly to bring for all the worke which the Lord had commanded the to make by the hand of Moses, brought a free offring to the Lord.
Exodus 35:30	Then Moses sayde vnto the children of Israel, Beholde, the Lord hath called by name Bezaleel the sonne of Vri, the sonne of Hur of the tribe of Iudah,
Exodus 35:31	And hath filled him with an excellent spirit of wisdome, of vnderstanding, and of knowledge, and in all maner worke,
Exodus 35:32	To finde out curious workes, to worke in golde, and in siluer, and in brasse,
Exodus 35:33	And in grauing stones to set them, and in karuing of wood, euen to make any maner of fine worke.
Exodus 35:34	And he hath put in his heart that hee may teach other: both hee, and Aholiab the sonne of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan:
Exodus 35:35	Them hath he filled with wisdome of heart to worke all maner of cunning and broidred, and needle worke: in blewe silke, and in purple, in skarlet, and in fine linnen and weauing, euen to do all maner of worke and subtill inuentions.
Exodus 36:1	Then wrought Bezaleel, and Aholiab, and all cunning men, to whome the Lord gaue wisedome, and vnderstanding, to knowe howe to worke all maner worke for the seruice of the Sanctuarie, according to all that the Lord had commanded.
Exodus 36:2	For Moses had called Bezaleel, and Aholiab, and all the wise hearted men, in whose heartes the Lord had giuen wisedome, euen as many as their hearts encouraged to come vnto that worke to worke it.
Exodus 36:3	And they receiued of Moses all the offering which the children of Israel had brought for the worke of the seruice of the Sanctuary, to make it: also they brought still vnto him free giftes euery morning.
Exodus 36:4	So all the wise men, that wrought all the holy worke, came euery man from his worke which they wrought,
Exodus 36:5	And spake to Moses, saying, The people bring too much, and more then ynough for the vse of the worke, which the Lord hath commanded to be made.
Exodus 36:6	Then Moses gaue a commandement, and they caused it to be proclaymed throughout the hoste, saying, Let neither man nor woman prepare any more worke for the oblation of the Sanctuarie. So the people were stayed from offring.
Exodus 36:7	For the stuffe they had, was sufficient for all the worke to make it, and too much.
Exodus 36:8	All the cunning men therefore among the workemen, made for the Tabernacle ten curtaines of fine twined linnen, and of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet: Cherubims of broydred worke made they vpon them.
Exodus 36:9	The length of one curtaine was twentie and eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtaine foure cubites: and the curtaines were all of one cise.
Exodus 36:10	And he coupled fiue curtaines together, and other fiue coupled he together.
Exodus 36:11	And he made strings of blewe silke by the edge of one curtaine, in the seluedge of the coupling: likewise he made on the side of the other curtaine in the seluedge in the second coupling.
Exodus 36:12	Fiftie strings made he in the one curtaine, and fiftie strings made he in the edge of the other curtaine, which was in the second coupling: the strings were set one against another.
Exodus 36:13	After, he made fiftie taches of golde, and coupled the curtaines one to another with the taches: so was it one Tabernacle.
Exodus 36:14	Also he made curtaines of goates heare for the couering vpon the Tabernacle: he made them to the nomber of eleuen curtaines.
Exodus 36:15	The length of one curtaine had thirtie cubites, and the bredth of one curtaine foure cubites: the eleuen curtaines were of one cise.
Exodus 36:16	And hee coupled fiue curtaines by themselues, and sixe curtaines by themselues:
Exodus 36:17	Also he made fiftie strings vpon the edge of one curtaine in the seluedge in the coupling, and fiftie strings made hee vpon the edge of the other curtaine in the second coupling.
Exodus 36:18	He made also fiftie taches of brasse to couple the couering that it might be one.
Exodus 36:19	And he made a couering vpon the pauilion of rams skinnes dyed red, and a couering of badgers skinnes aboue.
Exodus 36:20	Likewise he made the boards for the Tabernacle, of Shittim wood to stand vp.
Exodus 36:21	The length of a board was ten cubites, and the bredth of one board was a cubite, and an halfe.
Exodus 36:22	One board had two tenons, set in order as the feete of a ladder, one against another: thus made he for all the boardes of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 36:23	So he made twentie boardes for the South side of the Tabernacle, euen full South.
Exodus 36:24	And fourtie sockets of siluer made he vnder the twentie boardes, two sockets vnder one board for his two tenons, and two sockets vnder another board for his two tenons.
Exodus 36:25	Also for the other side of the Tabernacle toward the North, he made twentie boards,
Exodus 36:26	And their fourtie sockets of siluer, two sockets vnder one board, and two sockets vnder another boarde.
Exodus 36:27	Likewise toward the Westside of the Tabernacle he made sixe boardes.
Exodus 36:28	And two boardes made he in the corners of the Tabernacle, for either side,
Exodus 36:29	And they were ioyned beneath, and likewise were made sure aboue with a ring: thus he did to both in both corners.
Exodus 36:30	So there were eight boards and their sixteene sockets of siluer, vnder euery board two sockets.
Exodus 36:31	After, he made barres of Shittim wood, fiue for the boards in ye one side of ye Tabernacle,
Exodus 36:32	And fiue barres for the boardes in the other side of the Tabernacle, and fiue barres for the boards of the Tabernacle on the side toward the West.
Exodus 36:33	And he made the middest barre to shoote through the boards, from the one end to ye other.
Exodus 36:34	He ouerlayd also the boards with gold, and made their rings of gold for places for the barres, and couered the barres with golde.
Exodus 36:35	Moreouer he made a vaile of blew silke, and purple, and of skarlet, and of fine twined linen: with Cherubims of broydred worke made he it:
Exodus 36:36	And made thereunto foure pillars of Shittim, and ouerlayd them with golde: whose hookes were also of golde, and hee cast for them foure sockets of siluer.
Exodus 36:37	And he made an hanging for the Tabernacle doore, of blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linnen, and needle worke,
Exodus 36:38	And the fiue pillars of it with their hookes, and ouerlayde their chapiters and their filets with golde, but their fiue sockets were of brasse.
Exodus 37:1	After this, Bezaleel made the Arke of Shittim wood, two cubites and an halfe long and a cubite and an halfe broade, and a cubite and an halfe hie:
Exodus 37:2	And ouerlayde it with fine golde within and without, and made a crowne of golde to it rounde about,
Exodus 37:3	And cast for it foure rings of golde for the foure corners of it: that is, two rings for the one side of it, and two rings for the other side thereof.
Exodus 37:4	Also he made barres of Shittim wood, and couered them with golde,
Exodus 37:5	And put the barres in the rings by the sides of the Arke, to beare the Arke.
Exodus 37:6	And he made the Merciseate of pure golde: two cubites and an halfe was the length thereof, and one cubite and an halfe the breadth thereof.
Exodus 37:7	And he made two Cherubims of gold, vpon the two endes of the Merciseate: euen of worke beaten with the hammer made he them.
Exodus 37:8	One Cherub on the one ende, and another Cherub on the other ende: of the Merciseate made he the Cherubims, at ye two endes thereof.
Exodus 37:9	And the Cherubims spread out their wings on hie, and couered the Merciseat with their wings, and their faces were one towards another: towarde the Merciseat were the faces of the Cherubims.
Exodus 37:10	Also he made ye Table of Shittim wood: two cubites was the length thereof, and a cubite the breadth thereof, and a cubite and an halfe the height of it.
Exodus 37:11	And hee ouerlayde it with fine golde, and made thereto a crowne of golde round about.
Exodus 37:12	Also he made thereto a border of an hand breadth round about, and made vpon the border a crowne of golde round about.
Exodus 37:13	And he cast for it foure rings of gold, and put the rings in the foure corners that were in the foure feete thereof.
Exodus 37:14	Against the border were the rings, as places for the barres to beare the Table.
Exodus 37:15	And he made the barres of Shittim wood, and couered them with golde to beare the Table.
Exodus 37:16	Also he made the instruments for the Table of pure golde: dishes for it, and incense cuppes for it, and goblets for it, and couerings for it, wherewith it should be couered.
Exodus 37:17	Likewise he made the Candlesticke of pure golde: of worke beaten out with the hammer made he the Candlesticke: and his shaft, and his branche, his bolles, his knops, and his floures were of one piece.
Exodus 37:18	And sixe branches came out of the sides thereof: three branches of the Candlesticke out of the one side of it, and three branches of the Candlesticke out of the other side of it.
Exodus 37:19	In one branche three bolles made like almondes, a knop and a floure: and in another branch three bolles made like almondes, a knop and a floure: and so throughout the sixe branches that proceeded out of the Candlesticke.
Exodus 37:20	And vpon the Candlesticke were foure bolles after the facion of almondes, the knoppes thereof and the floures thereof:
Exodus 37:21	That is, vnder euery two branches a knop made thereof, and a knop vnder the second branch thereof, and a knop vnder the thirde branche thereof, according to the sixe branches comming out of it.
Exodus 37:22	Their knops and their branches were of the same: it was all one beaten worke of pure gold.
Exodus 37:23	And he made for it seuen lampes with the snuffers, and snufdishes thereof of pure golde.
Exodus 37:24	Of a talent of pure golde made he it with all the instruments thereof.
Exodus 37:25	Furthermore he made the perfume altar of Shittim wood: the length of it was a cubite, and the breadth of it a cubite (it was square) and two cubites hie, and the hornes thereof were of ye same.
Exodus 37:26	And he couered it with pure gold, both the top and the sides thereof rounde about, and the hornes of it, and made vnto it a crowne of golde round about.
Exodus 37:27	And he made two rings of gold for it, vnder the crowne thereof in the two corners of the two sides thereof, to put barres in for to beare it therewith.
Exodus 37:28	Also he made the barres of Shittim wood, and ouerlayde them with golde.
Exodus 37:29	And he made the holy anointing oyle, and the sweete pure incense after ye apothecaries arte.
Exodus 38:1	Also he made the altar of the burnt offering of Shittim wood: fiue cubites was the length therof, and fiue cubites the breadth thereof: it was square and three cubites hie.
Exodus 38:2	And hee made vnto it hornes in the foure corners thereof: the hornes thereof were of the same, and he ouerlayd it with brasse.
Exodus 38:3	Also he made al the instruments of the altar: the ashpans, and the besoms, and the basins, the fleshhookes, and the censers: all the instruments thereof made he of brasse.
Exodus 38:4	Moreouer he made a brasen grate wrought like a net to the Altar, vnder the compasse of it beneath in the middes of it,
Exodus 38:5	And cast foure rings of brasse for the foure endes of the grate to put barres in.
Exodus 38:6	And he made the barres of Shittim wood, and couered them with brasse.
Exodus 38:7	The which barres he put into the rings on the sides of the altar to beare it withall, and made it hollow within the boardes.
Exodus 38:8	Also he made the Lauer of brasse, and the foote of it of brasse of the glasses of the women that did assemble and came together at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Exodus 38:9	Finally he made the court on the South side full South: the hangings of the court were of fine twined linnen, hauing an hundreth cubites.
Exodus 38:10	Their pillars were twentie, and their brasen sockets twentie: the hookes of the pillars, and their filets were of siluer.
Exodus 38:11	And on the Northside the hanginges were an hundreth cubites: their pillars twentie, and their sockets of brasse twentie, the hookes of the pillars and their filets of siluer.
Exodus 38:12	On the Westside also were hangings of fiftie cubites, their ten pillars with their ten sockets: the hookes of the pillars and their filets of siluer.
Exodus 38:13	And toward ye Eastside, full East were hangings of fiftie cubites.
Exodus 38:14	The hangings of the one side were fifteene cubites, their three pillars, and their three sockets:
Exodus 38:15	And of the other side of the court gate on both sides were hangings of fifteene cubites, with their three pillars and their three sockets.
Exodus 38:16	All the hangings of the court round about were of fine twined linen:
Exodus 38:17	But the sockets of ye pillars were of brasse: the hookes of the pillars and their filets of siluer, and the couering of their chapiters of siluer: and all the pillars of the court were hooped about with siluer.
Exodus 38:18	He made also the hanging of the gate of the court of needle worke, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen euen twentie cubites long, and fiue cubites in height and bredth, like the hangings of the court.
Exodus 38:19	And their pillars were foure with their foure sockets of brasse: their hookes of siluer, and the couering of their chapiters, and their filets of siluer.
Exodus 38:20	But all the pins of the Tabernacle and of the court round about were of brasse.
Exodus 38:21	These are the parts of the Tabernacle, I meane, of the Tabernacle of the Testimonie, which was appovnted by the commandement of Moses for the office of the Leuites by the hande of Ithamar sonne to Aaron the Priest.
Exodus 38:22	So Bezaleel the sonne of Vri the sonne of Hur of the tribe of Iudah, made all that the Lord commanded Moses.
Exodus 38:23	And with him Aholiab sonne of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan, a cunning workeman and an embroiderer and a worker of needle work in blew silke, and in purple, and in skarlet, and in fine linen.
Exodus 38:24	All ye gold that was occupied in all ye worke wrought for the holy place (which was the gold of the offring) was nine and twentie talents, and seuen hundreth and thirtie shekels, according to the shekel of the Sanctuarie.
Exodus 38:25	But the siluer of them that were numbred in the Congregation, was an hundreth talents, and a thousand seuen hundreth seuentie and fiue shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie.
Exodus 38:26	A portion for a man, that is, halfe a shekel after ye shekel of the Sanctuarie, for all them that were numbred from twentie yeere olde and aboue, among sixe hundreth thousande, and three thousand, and fiue hundreth and fiftie men.
Exodus 38:27	Moreouer there were an hundreth talentes of siluer, to cast ye sockets of ye Sanctuary, and the sockets of the vaile: an hundreth sockets of an hundreth talents, a talent for a socket.
Exodus 38:28	But he made the hookes for the pillars of a thousande seuen hundreth and seuentie and fiue shekels, and ouerlayde their chapiters, and made filets about them.
Exodus 38:29	Also the brasse of the offering was seuentie talents, and two thousande, and foure hundreth shekels.
Exodus 38:30	Whereof he made the sockets to the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the brasen altar, and the brasen grate which was for it, with all the instruments of the Altar,
Exodus 38:31	And the sockets of the court round about, and the sockets for the court gate, and al the pins of the Tabernacle, and all the pins of the court round about.
Exodus 39:1	Moreouer they made garments of ministration to minister in the Sanctuarie of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet: they made also the holy garments for Aaron, as the Lord had comanded Moses.
Exodus 39:2	So he made the Ephod of gold, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 39:3	And they did beate the golde into thinne plates, and cut it into wiers, to worke it in ye blewe silke and in the purple, and in the skarlet, and in the fine linen, with broydred worke.
Exodus 39:4	For the which they made shoulders to couple together: for it was closed by the two edges thereof.
Exodus 39:5	And the broydred garde of his Ephod that was vpon him, was of the same stuffe, and of like worke: euen of golde, of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:6	And they wrought two Onix stones closed in ouches of golde, and graued, as signets are grauen, with the names of the children of Israel,
Exodus 39:7	And put them on the shoulders of the Ephod, as stones for a remembrance of the children of Israel, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:8	Also he made the brestplate of broydred worke like the worke of the Ephod: to wit, of gold, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 39:9	They made the brest plate double, and it was square, an hand breadth long, and an hand breadth broad: it was also double.
Exodus 39:10	And they filled it with foure rowes of stones. The order was thus, a Rubie, a Topaze, and a Carbuncle in the first rowe:
Exodus 39:11	And in the seconde rowe, an Emeraude, a Saphir, and a Diamond:
Exodus 39:12	Also in the thirde rowe, a Turkeis, an Achate, and an Hematite:
Exodus 39:13	Likewise in the fourth rowe, a Chrysolite, an Onix, and a Iasper: closed and set in ouches of golde.
Exodus 39:14	So the stones were according to the names of the children of Israel, euen twelue after their names, grauen like signets euery one after his name according to the twelue tribes.
Exodus 39:15	After, they made vpon the brest plate cheines at the endes, of wrethen worke and pure golde.
Exodus 39:16	They made also two bosses of golde, and two golde rings, and put the two rings in the two corners of the brest plate.
Exodus 39:17	And they put ye two wrethe cheines of gold in the two rings, in the corners of the brest plate.
Exodus 39:18	Also the two other endes of the two wrethen chaines they fastened in the two bosses, and put the on the shoulders of the Ephod vpon the forefront of it.
Exodus 39:19	Likewise they made two rings of gold, and put them in the two other corners of the brest plate vpon the edge of it, which was on the inside of the Ephod.
Exodus 39:20	They made also two other golden rings, and put them on the two sides of the Ephod, beneath on the foreside of it, and ouer against his coupling aboue the broydered garde of the Ephod.
Exodus 39:21	Then they fastened the brest plate by his rings vnto the rings of the Ephod, with a lace of blewe silke, that it might bee fast vpon the broydered garde of the Ephod, and that the brest plate should not be loosed from the Ephod, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:22	Moreouer, he made the robe of the Ephod of wouen worke, altogether of blewe silke.
Exodus 39:23	And the hole of the robe was in the middes of it, as the coller of an habergeon, with an edge about the coller, that it shoulde not rent.
Exodus 39:24	And they made vpon the skirts of the robe pomegranates, of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linen twined.
Exodus 39:25	They made also belles of pure gold and put the belles betweene the pomegranates vpon the skirtes of the robe rounde about betweene the pomegranates.
Exodus 39:26	A bel and a pomegranate, a bel and a pomegranate round about the skirts of the robe to minister in, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:27	After, they made coates of fine linen, of wouen worke for Aaron and for his sonnes.
Exodus 39:28	And the miter of fine linen, and goodly bonnets of fine linen, and linen breeches of fine twined linen,
Exodus 39:29	And the girdle of fine twined linen, and of blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, euen of needle worke, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:30	Finally they made the plate for the holy crowne of fine golde, and wrote vpon it a superscription like to the grauing of a signet, HOLINES TO THE LORD.
Exodus 39:31	And they tied vnto it a lace of blewe silke to fasten it on hie vpon the miter, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:32	Thus was all the worke of the Tabernacle, euen of the Tabernacle of the Congregation finished: and the children of Israel did according to al that the Lord had commanded Moses: so dyd they.
Exodus 39:33	Afterwarde they brought the Tabernacle vnto Moses, the Tabernacle and al his instruments, his taches, his boards, his barres, and his pillars, and his sockets,
Exodus 39:34	And the couering of rammes skinnes died red, and the couerings of badgers skinnes, and the couering vaile.
Exodus 39:35	The Arke of the Testimony, and the barres thereof, and the Merciseate,
Exodus 39:36	The Table, with all the instruments thereof, and the shewebread,
Exodus 39:37	The pure Candlesticke, the lampes thereof, euen the lampes set in order, and all the instruments thereof, and the oyle for light:
Exodus 39:38	Also the golden Altar and the anoynting oyle, and the sweete incense, and the hanging of the Tabernacle doore,
Exodus 39:39	The brasen Altar with his grate of brasse, his barres and all his instruments, the Lauer and his foote.
Exodus 39:40	The curtaines of the court with his pillars, and his sockets, and the hanging to the court gate, and his cordes, and his pinnes, and all the instruments of the seruice of the Tabernacle, called the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Exodus 39:41	Finally, the ministring garmentes to serue in the Sanctuarie, and the holy garmentes for Aaron the Priest, and his sonnes garmentes to minister in the Priestes office.
Exodus 39:42	According to euery poynt that the Lord had commanded Moses, so the children of Israel made all the worke.
Exodus 39:43	And Moses beheld al the worke, and behold, they had done it as the Lord had commanded: so had they done: and Moses blessed them.
Exodus 40:1	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 40:2	In the first day of the first moneth in the very first of the same moneth shalt thou set vp the Tabernacle, called ye Tabernacle of the Congregation:
Exodus 40:3	And thou shalt put therein the Arke of the Testimonie, and couer the Arke with the vaile.
Exodus 40:4	Also thou shalt bring in the Table, and set it in order as it doth require: thou shalt also bring in the Candlesticke, and light his lampes,
Exodus 40:5	And thou shalt set ye incense Altar of gold before the Arke of the Testimonie, and put the hanging at the doore of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 40:6	Moreouer, thou shalt set the burnt offering Altar before the doore of the Tabernacle, called the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Exodus 40:7	And thou shalt set the Lauer betweene the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the Altar, and put water therein.
Exodus 40:8	Then thou shalt appoynt the courte round about, and hang vp the hanging at the courte gate.
Exodus 40:9	After, thou shalt take the anoynting oyle, and anoynt the Tabernacle, and all that is therein, and halowe it with all the instruments thereof, that it may be holy.
Exodus 40:10	And thou shalt anoynt the Altar of the burnt offring, and all his instruments, and shalt sanctifie the Altar, that it may bee an altar most holie.
Exodus 40:11	Also thou shalt anoynt the Lauer, and his foote, and shalt sanctifie it.
Exodus 40:12	Then thou shalt bring Aaron and his sonnes vnto the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and wash them with water.
Exodus 40:13	And thou shalt put vpon Aaron the holy garmentes, and shalt anoynt him, and sanctifie him, that he may minister vnto me in the Priestes office.
Exodus 40:14	Thou shalt also bring his sonnes, and clothe them with garments,
Exodus 40:15	And shalt anoynt them as thou diddest anoynt their father, that they may minister vnto mee in the Priestes office: for their anoynting shall be a signe, that the Priesthood shall be euerlasting vnto them throughout their generations.
Exodus 40:16	So Moses did according to all that ye Lord had commanded him: so did he.
Exodus 40:17	Thus was the Tabernacle reared vp the first day of the first moneth in the seconde yeere.
Exodus 40:18	Then Moses reared vp the Tabernacle and fastened his sockets, and set vp the boardes thereof, and put in the barres of it, and reared vp his pillars.
Exodus 40:19	And he spred the couering ouer the Tabernacle, and put the couering of that couering on hie aboue it, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:20	And he tooke and put the Testimonie in the Arke, and put the barres in the ringes of the Arke, and set the Merciseate on hie vpon the Arke.
Exodus 40:21	He brought also the Arke into the Tabernacle, and hanged vp the couering vaile, and couered the Arke of the Testimonie, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:22	Furthermore he put the Table in the Tabernacle of the Congregation in the Northside of the Tabernacle, without the vaile,
Exodus 40:23	And set the bread in order before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:24	Also he put the Candlesticke in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, ouer against the Table toward ye Southside of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 40:25	And he lighted the lampes before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:26	Moreouer he set the golden Altar in the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the vayle,
Exodus 40:27	And burnt sweete incense thereon, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:28	Also he hanged vp the vayle at the doore of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 40:29	After, he set the burnt offring Altar without the doore of the Tabernacle, called the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and offered the burnt offering and the sacrifice thereon, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:30	Likewise he set the Lauer betweene the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the Altar, and powred water therein to wash with.
Exodus 40:31	So Moses and Aaron, and his sonnes washed their handes and their feete thereat.
Exodus 40:32	When they went into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and when they approched to the Altar, they washed, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:33	Finally, he reared vp the court rounde about the Tabernacle and the Altar, and hanged vp the vaile at the court gate: so Moses finished the worke.
Exodus 40:34	Then the cloud couered the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the glorie of the Lord filled the Tabernacle.
Exodus 40:35	So Moses could not enter into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, because the cloude abode thereon, and the glorie of the Lord filled the Tabernacle.
Exodus 40:36	Nowe when the cloude ascended vp from the Tabernacle, the children of Israel went forward in all their iourneyes.
Exodus 40:37	But if the cloude ascended not, then they iourneyed not till the day that it ascended.
Exodus 40:38	For the cloude of the Lord was vpon the Tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their iourneyes.
