GENEVA 1599 PUBLIC DOMAIN CORPUS

===== BOOK: Ezra =====
Ezra 1:1	Nowe in the first yere of Cyrus King of Persia (that the worde of the Lord, spoken by the mouth of Ieremiah, might be accomplished) the Lord stirred vp the spirite of Cyrus King of Persia, and hee made a Proclamation thorowe all his Kingdome, and also by writing, saying,
Ezra 1:2	Thus saith Cyrus King of Persia, The Lord God of heauen hath giuen me all the kingdomes of the earth, and he hath commanded me to builde him an house in Ierusalem, which is in Iudah.
Ezra 1:3	Who is he among you of all his people with whome his God is? let him goe vp to Ierusalem which is in Iudah, and buylde the house of the Lord God of Israel: he is the God, which is in Ierusalem.
Ezra 1:4	And euery one that remayneth in any place (where he soiourneth) let the men of his place relieue him with siluer and with golde, and with substance, and with cattel, and with a willing offring, for the house of God that is in Ierusalem.
Ezra 1:5	Then the chiefe fathers of Iudah and Beniamin, and the Priests and Leuites rose vp, with al them whose spirit God had raysed to goe vp, to builde the house of the Lord which is in Ierusalem.
Ezra 1:6	And all they that were about them, strengthened their handes with vessels of siluer, with golde, with substance and with cattell, and with precious thinges, besides all that was willingly offred.
Ezra 1:7	Also the King Cyrus brought forth the vessels of the house of the Lord, which Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of Ierusalem, and had put them in the house of his god.
Ezra 1:8	Euen them did Cyrus King of Persia bring forth by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and counted them vnto Sheshbazzar the Prince of Iudah.
Ezra 1:9	And this is the nomber of them, thirtie basins of golde, a thousand basins of siluer, nine and twentie kniues,
Ezra 1:10	Thirtie boules of gold, and of siluer boules of the second sort, foure hundreth and tenne, and of other vessels, a thousand.
Ezra 1:11	All the vessels of golde and siluer were fiue thousand and foure hundreth. Sheshbazzar brought vp all with them of the captiuitie that came vp from Babel to Ierusalem.
Ezra 2:1	These also are the sonnes of the prouince, that went vp out of the captiuitie (whome Nebuchadnezzar King of Babel had caried away vnto Babel) and returned to Ierusalem, and to Iudah, euery one vnto his citie,
Ezra 2:2	Which came with Zerubbabel, to wit, Ieshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Biguai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel was,
Ezra 2:3	The sonnes of Parosh, two thousand, an hudreth seuentie and two:
Ezra 2:4	The sonnes of Shephatiah, three hundreth, seuentie and two:
Ezra 2:5	The sonnes of Arah, seuen hundreth, and seuentie and fiue:
Ezra 2:6	The sonnes of Pahath Moab, of the sonnes of Ieshua and Ioab, two thousand, eight hundreth and twelue:
Ezra 2:7	The sonnes of Elam, a thousande, two hundreth and foure and fiftie:
Ezra 2:8	The sonnes of Zattu, nine hundreth and fiue and fourtie:
Ezra 2:9	The sonnes of Zaccai, seuen hundreth and threescore:
Ezra 2:10	The sonnes of Bani, sixe hundreth and two and fourtie:
Ezra 2:11	The sonnes of Bebai, sixe hundreth, and three and twentie:
Ezra 2:12	The sonnes of Azgad a thousand, two hundreth and two and twentie:
Ezra 2:13	The sonnes of Adonikam, sixe hundreth, three score and sixe:
Ezra 2:14	The sonnes of Biguai, two thousand, and sixe and fiftie:
Ezra 2:15	The sonnes of Adin, foure hundreth and foure and fiftie:
Ezra 2:16	The sonnes of Ater of Hizkiah, ninetie and eight:
Ezra 2:17	The sonnes of Bezai, three hundreth and three and twentie:
Ezra 2:18	The sonnes of Iorah, an hudreth and twelue:
Ezra 2:19	The sonnes of Hasshum, two hundreth and three and twentie:
Ezra 2:20	The sonnes of Gibbar, ninetie and fiue:
Ezra 2:21	The sonnes of Beth-lehem, an hundreth and three and twentie:
Ezra 2:22	The men of Netophah, sixe and fiftie:
Ezra 2:23	The men of Anothoth, an hundreth and eight and twentie:
Ezra 2:24	The sonnes of Azmaueth, two and fourtie:
Ezra 2:25	The sonnes of Kiriath-arim, of Chephirah, and Beeroth, seuen hundreth and three and fourtie:
Ezra 2:26	The sonnes of Haramah and Gaba, six hundreth, and one and twentie:
Ezra 2:27	The men of Michmas, an hundreth and two and twentie:
Ezra 2:28	The sonnes of Beth-el and Ai, two hundreth, and three and twentie:
Ezra 2:29	The sonnes of Nebo, two and fiftie:
Ezra 2:30	The sonnes of Magbish, an hundreth and sixe and fiftie:
Ezra 2:31	The sonnes of the other Elam, a thousand, and two hundreth, and foure and fiftie:
Ezra 2:32	The sonnes of Harim, three hundreth and twentie:
Ezra 2:33	The sonnes of Lod-hadid, and Ono, seuen hundreth, and fiue and twentie:
Ezra 2:34	The sonnes of Iericho, three hundreth and fiue and fourtie:
Ezra 2:35	The sonnes of Senaah, three thousand, sixe hundreth and thirtie.
Ezra 2:36	The Priests: of the sonnes of Iedaiah of the house of Ieshua, nine hundreth seuentie and three:
Ezra 2:37	The sonnes of Immer, a thousand and two and fiftie:
Ezra 2:38	The sonnes of Pashur, a thousand, two hundreth and seuen and fourtie:
Ezra 2:39	The sonnes of Harim, a thousande and seuenteene.
Ezra 2:40	The Leuites: the sonnes of Ieshua, and Kadmiel of the sonnes of Hodauiah, seuentie and foure.
Ezra 2:41	The Singers: the sonnes of Asaph, an hundreth and eight and twentie.
Ezra 2:42	The sonnes of the porters: the sonnes of Shallum, the sonnes of Ater, the sonnes of Talmon, the sonnes of Akkub, the sonnes of Hatita, the sonnes of Shobai: all were an hundreth and nine and thirtie.
Ezra 2:43	The Nethinims: the sonnes of Ziha, the sonnes of Hasupha, the sonnes of Tabbaoth,
Ezra 2:44	The sonnes of Keros, the sonnes of Siaha, the sonnes of Padon,
Ezra 2:45	The sonnes of Lebanah, the sonnes of Hagabah, the sonnes of Akkub,
Ezra 2:46	The sonnes of Hagab, the sonnes of Shamlai, the sonnes of Hanan,
Ezra 2:47	The sonnes of Giddel, the sonnes of Gahar, the sonnes of Reaiah,
Ezra 2:48	The sonnes of Rezin, the sonnes of Nekoda, the sonnes of Gazzam,
Ezra 2:49	The sonnes of Vzza, the sonnes of Paseah, the sonnes of Besai,
Ezra 2:50	The sonnes of Asnah, the sonnes of Meunim, the sonnes of Nephusim,
Ezra 2:51	The sonnes of Bakbuk, the sonnes of Hakupa, the sonnes of Harhur,
Ezra 2:52	The sonnes of Bazluth, the sonnes of Mehida, the sonnes of Harsha,
Ezra 2:53	The sonnes of Barcos, the sonnes of Sisara, the sonnes of Thamah,
Ezra 2:54	The sonnes of Neziah, the sonnes of Hatipha,
Ezra 2:55	The sonnes of Salomons seruantes: the sonnes of Sotai, the sonnes of Sophereth, the sonnes of Peruda,
Ezra 2:56	The sonnes of Iaalah, the sonnes of Darkon, the sonnes of Giddel,
Ezra 2:57	The sonnes of Shephatiah, the sonnes of Hattil, the sonnes of Pochereth Hazzebaim, the sonnes of Ami.
Ezra 2:58	All the Nethinims, and the sonnes of Salomons seruants were three hundreth ninetie and two.
Ezra 2:59	And these went vp from Telmelah, and from Telharsha, Cherub, Addan, and Immer, but they could not discerne their fathers house and their seede, whether they were of Israel.
Ezra 2:60	The sonnes of Delaiah, the sonnes of Tobiah, the sonnes of Nekoda, six hundreth and two and fiftie.
Ezra 2:61	And of the sonnes of the Priestes, the sonnes of Habaiah, the sonnes of Coz, the sonnes of Barzillai: which tooke of the daughters of Barzillai the Giliadite to wife, and was called after their name.
Ezra 2:62	These sought their writing of the genealogies, but they were not founde: therefore were they put from the Priesthood.
Ezra 2:63	And Tirshatha saide vnto them, that they should not eate of the most holy thing, tell there rose vp a Priest with Vrim and Thummim.
Ezra 2:64	The whole Congregation together was two and fourtie thousande, three hundreth and threescore,
Ezra 2:65	Beside their seruants and their maydes: of whome were seuen thousande, three hundreth and seuen and thirtie: and among them were two hundreth singing men and singing women.
Ezra 2:66	Their horses were seuen hundreth, and sixe and thirtie: their mules, two hundreth and fiue and fourtie:
Ezra 2:67	Their camels foure hundreth, and fiue and thirtie: their asses, sixe thousand, seuen hundreth and twentie.
Ezra 2:68	And certeine of the chiefe fathers, when they came to the house of the Lord, which was in Ierusalem, they offred willingly for the house of God, to set it vp vpon his fundation.
Ezra 2:69	They gaue after their abilitie vnto the treasure of the worke, euen one and threescore thousand drammes of golde, and fiue thousand pieces of siluer, and an hundreth Priests garments.
Ezra 2:70	So the Priests and the Leuites, and a certeine of the people, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinims dwelt in their cities, and all Israel in their cities.
Ezra 3:1	And when the seuenth moneth was come, and the children of Israel were in their cities, the people assembled themselues as one man vnto Ierusalem.
Ezra 3:2	Then stoode vp Ieshua rhe sonne of Iozadak, and his brethren the Priests, and Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel, and his brethren, and builded the altar of the God of Israel, to offer burnt offerings thereon, as it is written in ye Lawe of Moses the man of God,
Ezra 3:3	And they set the altar vpon his bases (for feare was among them, because of the people of those countreis) therefore they offered burnt offrings thereon vnto the Lord, euen burnt offrings in the morning, and at euen.
Ezra 3:4	They kept also the feast of the Tabernacles, as it is written, and the burnt offring dayly, by nomber according to the custome day by day,
Ezra 3:5	And afterwarde the continuall bnrnt offring, both in the newe moneths and in all the feast dayes that were consecrate vnto the Lord, and in all the oblations willingly offered vnto the Lord.
Ezra 3:6	From the first day of the seuenth moneth began they to offer burnt offrings vnto the Lord: but the foundation of the Temple of the Lord was not layed.
Ezra 3:7	They gaue money also vnto the masons, and to the workemen, and meat and drinke, and oyle vnto them of Zidon and of Tyrus, to bring them cedar wood from Lebanon to the sea vnto Iapho, according to the graunt that they had of Cyrus King of Persia.
Ezra 3:8	And in the seconde yeere of their comming vnto the house of God in Ierusalem in the second moneth began Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel, and Ieshua the sonne of Iozadak, and the remnant of their brethren the Priests and the Leuites, and all they that were come out of the captiuitie vnto Ierusalem, and appointed the Leuites from twentie yeere olde and aboue, to set forwarde the worke of the house of the Lord.
Ezra 3:9	And Ieshua stood with his sonnes, and his brethren, and Kadmiel with his sonnes, and the sonnes of Iudah together to set forward ye workemen in the house of God, and the sonnes of Henadad with their sonnes, and their brethren the Leuites.
Ezra 3:10	And when the builders layed the foundation of the Temple of the Lord, they appoynted the Priestes in their apparel with trumpets, and the Leuites the sonnes of Asaph with cymbales, to prayse the Lord, after the ordinance of Dauid King of Israel.
Ezra 3:11	Thus they sang when they gaue prayse, and when they gaue thankes vnto the Lord, For he is good, for his mercie endureth for euer toward Israel. And all the people shouted with a great shoute, when they praysed the Lord, because the foundation of the house of the Lord was layed.
Ezra 3:12	Many also of the Priests and the Leuites and the chiefe of the fathers, ancient men which had seene the first house, (when the foundation of this house was layed before their eyes) wept with a loud voyce, and many shouted aloud for ioy,
Ezra 3:13	So that the people coulde not discerne the sound of the shoute for ioy, from the noyse of the weeping of the people: for the people shouted with a loude crie, and the noyse was heard farre off.
Ezra 4:1	Bvt the aduersaries of Iudah and Beniamin heard, that the children of the captiuitie builded the Temple vnto the Lord God of Israel.
Ezra 4:2	And they came to Zerubbabel, and to the chiefe fathers, and sayd vnto them, We wil builde with you: for we seeke the Lord your God as ye do, and we haue sacrificed vnto him since the time of Esar Haddon king of Asshur, which brought vs vp hither.
Ezra 4:3	Then Zerubbabel, and Ieshua, and the rest of the chiefe fathers of Israel, sayde vnto them, It is not for you, but for vs to buyld the house vnto our God: for we our selues together wil buylde it vnto the Lord God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia hath commanded vs.
Ezra 4:4	Wherefore the people of the land discouraged the people of Iudah, and troubled them in buylding,
Ezra 4:5	And they hired counsellers against them, to hinder their deuise, all the dayes of Cyrus King of Persia, euen vntill the reigne of Darius King of Persia.
Ezra 4:6	And in the reigne of Ahashuerosh (in the beginning of his reigne) wrote they an accusation against the inhabitants of Iudah and Ierusalem.
Ezra 4:7	And in the daies of Artahshashte, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of their companions wrote when it was peace, vnto Artahshashte king of Persia, and the writing of the letter was the Aramites writing, and the thing declared was in the language of the Aramites.
Ezra 4:8	Rehum the chancelour, and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Ierusalem to Artahshashte the King, in this sort.
Ezra 4:9	Then wrote Rehum the chauncelour, and Shimshai the scribe, and their companions Dinaie, and Apharsathcaie, Tarpelaie, Apharsaie, Archeuaie, Bablaie, Shushanchaie, Dehaue, Elmaie,
Ezra 4:10	And the rest of the people whom the great and noble Asnappar brought ouer, and set in the cities of Samaria, and other that are beyonde the Riuer and Cheeneth.
Ezra 4:11	This is the copie of the letter that they sent vnto King Artahshashte, THY SERVANTS the men beyond the Riuer and Cheeneth, salute thee.
Ezra 4:12	Be it knowen vnto the King that ye Iewes, which came vp from thee to vs, are come vnto Ierusalem (a citie rebellious and wicked) and buylde, and lay the foundations of the walles, and haue ioyned the foundations.
Ezra 4:13	Be it knowen nowe vnto the King, that if this citie be built, and the foundations of the walles layed, they will not giue tolle, tribute, nor custome: so shalt thou hinder the Kings tribute.
Ezra 4:14	Nowe therefore because wee haue bene brought vp in the Kings palace, it was not meete for vs to see the Kings dishonour: for this cause haue we sent and certified the King,
Ezra 4:15	That one may searche in the booke of the Chronicles of thy fathers, and thou shalt finde in the booke of the Chronicles, and perceiue that this citie is rebellious and noysome vnto Kings and prouinces, and that they haue moued sedition of olde time, for the which cause this citie was destroyed.
Ezra 4:16	Wee certifie the King therefore, that if this citie be buylded, and the foundation of the walles layd, by this meanes the portion beyonde the Riuer shall not be thine.
Ezra 4:17	The King sent an answere vnto Rehum the Chauncelour, and Shimshai the Scribe, and so the rest of their companions that dwelt in Samaria, and vnto the other beyond the Riuer, Shelam and Cheeth.
Ezra 4:18	The letter which yee sent vnto vs, hath bene openly read before me,
Ezra 4:19	And I haue commanded and they haue searched, and founde, that this citie of olde time hath made insurrection against kings, and hath rebelled, and rebellion hath bene committed therein.
Ezra 4:20	There haue bene mightie kings also ouer Ierusalem, which haue ruled ouer all beyonde the Riuer, and tolle, tribute, and custome was giuen vnto them.
Ezra 4:21	Make ye now a decree, that those men may cease, and that the citie be not buylt, till I haue giuen another commandement.
Ezra 4:22	Take heede nowe that ye fayle not to doe this: why should domage grow to hurt the King?
Ezra 4:23	When the copie of king Artahshashtes letter was read before Rehum and Shimshai the scribe, and their companions, they went vp in all the haste to Ierusalem vnto the Iewes, and caused them to cease by force and power.
Ezra 4:24	Then ceased the worke of the house of God, which was in Ierusalem, and did stay vnto the second yeere of Darius King of Persia.
Ezra 5:1	Then Haggai a Prophet and Zechariah the sonne of Iddo a Prophet prophecied vnto the Iewes that were in Iudah, and Ierusalem, in the name of the God of Israel, euen vnto them.
Ezra 5:2	Then Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel, and Ieshua the sonne of Iozadak arose, and began to builde the house of God at Ierusalem, and with them were the Prophetes of God, which helped them.
Ezra 5:3	At the same time came to them Tatnai, which was captaine beyonde the Riuer, and Shether-boznai and their companions, and sayd thus vnto them, Who hath giuen you commandement to buylde this house, and to lay the foundations of these walles?
Ezra 5:4	Then sayde we vnto them after this maner, What are the names of the men that buylde this buylding?
Ezra 5:5	But the eye of their God was vpon the Elders of the Iewes, that they coulde not cause them to cease, till the matter came to Darius: and then they answered by letters thereunto.
Ezra 5:6	The copie of the letter, that Tatnai captaine beyond the Riuer, and Shether-boznai and his companions, Apharsechaie, (which were beyond the Riuer) sent vnto King Darius.
Ezra 5:7	They sent a letter vnto him, wherein it was written thus, VNTO DARIVS the king, all peace.
Ezra 5:8	Be it knowen vnto the King, that we went into the prouince of Iudea, to the house of the great God, which is builded with great stones, and beames are layde in the walles, and this worke is wrought speedily, and prospereth in their hands.
Ezra 5:9	Then asked we those Elders, and sayd vnto them thus, Who hath giuen you commandement to buylde this house, and to lay the foundation of these walles?
Ezra 5:10	We asked their names also, that we might certifie thee, and that we might write the names of the men that were their rulers.
Ezra 5:11	But they answered vs thus, and sayd, We are the seruants of the God of heauen and earth, and buylde the house that was buylt of olde and many yeeres ago, which a great King of Israel builded, and founded it.
Ezra 5:12	But after that our fathers had prouoked the God of heauen vnto wrath, he gaue them ouer into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar King of Babel the Caldean, and he destroyed this house, and caryed the people away captiue vnto Babel.
Ezra 5:13	But in the first yere of Cyrus King of Babel, King Cyrus made a decree to buylde this house of God.
Ezra 5:14	And the vessels of golde and siluer of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar tooke out of the Temple, that was in Ierusalem, and brought them into the Temple of Babel, those did Cyrus the king take out of the Temple of Babel, and they gaue them vnto one Sheshbazzar by his name, whome he had made captaine.
Ezra 5:15	And he sayde vnto him, Take these vessels and goe thy way, and put them in the Temple that is in Ierusalem, and let the house of God be buylt in his place.
Ezra 5:16	Then came the same Sheshbazzar and layde the foundation of the house of God, which is in Ierusalem, and since that time euen vntill nowe, hath it bene in buylding, yet is it not finished.
Ezra 5:17	Nowe therefore if it please the King, let there be searche made in the house of the Kings treasures, which is there in Babel, whether a decree hath bene made by King Cyrus, to build this house of God in Ierusalem, and let the King send his minde concerning this.
Ezra 6:1	Then King Darius gaue commandement, and they made search in the librarie of the treasures, which were there layd vp in Babel.
Ezra 6:2	And there was founde in a coffer (in the palace that was in the prouince of the Medes) a volume, and therein was it thus written, as a memoriall,
Ezra 6:3	IN THE FIRST yeere of King Cyrus, King Cyrus made a decree for the house of God in Ierusalem, Let the house be buylt, euen the place where they offred sacrifices, and let the walles thereof be ioyned together: let the height thereof be three score cubites, and the breadth thereof three score cubites,
Ezra 6:4	Three orders of great stones, and one order of timber, and let the expenses be giuen of the Kings house.
Ezra 6:5	And also let them render the vessels of the house of God (of golde and siluer, which Nebuchadnezzar tooke out of the Temple, which was in Ierusalem, and brought vnto Babel) and let him goe vnto the Temple that is in Ierusalem to his place, and put them in the house of God.
Ezra 6:6	Therefore Tatnai captaine beyond the Riuer, and Shethar Boznai, (and their companions Apharsecaie, which are beyonde the Riuer) be ye farre from thence.
Ezra 6:7	Suffer ye the worke of this house of God, that the captaine of the Iewes and the Elders of the Iewes may buylde this house of God in his place.
Ezra 6:8	For I haue giuen a commandement what ye shall doe to the Elders of these Iewes, for the buylding of this house of God, that of the reuenues of the King, which is of the tribute beyonde the Riuer, there be incontinently expenses giuen vnto these men that they cease not.
Ezra 6:9	And that which they shall haue neede of, let it be giuen vnto them day by day, whether it be yong bullockes, or rammes, or lambes for the burnt offrings of the God of heauen, wheate, salt, wine, and oyle, according to the appoyntment of the Priestes that are in Ierusalem, that there bee no fault,
Ezra 6:10	That they may haue to offer sweete odours vnto the God of heauen, and praye for the Kings life, and for his sonnes.
Ezra 6:11	And I haue made a decree, that whosoeuer shall alter this sentence, the wood shall be pulled downe from his house, and shall be set vp, and he shalbe hanged thereon, and his house shalbe made a dunghill for this.
Ezra 6:12	And the God that hath caused his Name to dwell there, destroy all Kings and people that put to their hand to alter, and to destroy this house of God, which is in Ierusalem. I Darius haue made a decree, let it be done with speede.
Ezra 6:13	Then Tatnai the captaine beyond the Riuer, and Shethar Boznai and their companions, according to that which Darius had sent, so they did speedily.
Ezra 6:14	So the Elders of the Iewes builded, and they prospered by the prophecying of Haggai the Prophet, and Zechariah the sonne of Iddo, and they buylded and finished it, by the appoyntment of the God of Israel, and by the commandement of Cyrus and Darius, and Artahshashte king of Persia.
Ezra 6:15	And this house was finished the thirde day of the moneth Adar, which was the sixt yeere of the reigne of King Darius.
Ezra 6:16	And the children of Israel, the Priestes, and the Leuites, and the residue of the children of the captiuitie kept the dedication of this house of God with ioy,
Ezra 6:17	And offred at the dedication of this house of God an hundreth bullockes, two hundreth rams, foure hundreth lambes, and twelue goates, for the sinne of all Israel, according to the nomber of the tribes of Israel.
Ezra 6:18	And they set the Priests in their order, and the Leuites in their courses ouer the seruice of God in Ierusalem, as it is written in the booke of Moses.
Ezra 6:19	And the childre of the captiuitie kept the Passeouer on ye fourtenth day of the first moneth.
Ezra 6:20	(For the Priests and the Leuites were purified altogether) and they killed the Passeouer for all the children of the captiuitie, and for their brethren the Priests, and for themselues.
Ezra 6:21	So the children of Israel which were come againe out of captiuitie, and all such as had separated themselues vnto them, from the filthines of the Heathen of the land, to seeke the Lord God of Israel, did eate,
Ezra 6:22	And they kept ye feast of vnleauened bread seuen dayes with ioy: for the Lord had made them glad, and turned the heart of the King of Asshur vnto them, to incourage them in the worke of the house of God, euen the God of Israel.
Ezra 7:1	Now after these things, in the reigne of Artahshashte King of Persia, was Ezra the sonne of Seraiah, the sonne of Azariah, the sonne of Hilkiah,
Ezra 7:2	The sonne of Shallum, the sonne of Zadok, the sonne of Ahitub,
Ezra 7:3	The sonne of Amariah, the sonne of Azariah, the sonne of Meraioth,
Ezra 7:4	The sonne of Zeraiah, the sonne of Vzzi, the sonne of Bukki,
Ezra 7:5	The sonne of Abishua, the sonne of Phinehas, the sonne of Eleazar, the sonne of Aaron, the chiefe Priest.
Ezra 7:6	This Ezra came vp from Babel, and was a Scribe prompt in the Lawe of Moses, which the Lord God of Israel had giuen, and the King gaue him all his request according to the hande of the Lord his God which was vpon him.
Ezra 7:7	And there went vp certaine of the children of Israel, and of the Priests, and the Leuites, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinims vnto Ierusalem, in the seuenth yere of King Artahshashte.
Ezra 7:8	And hee came to Ierusalem in the fift moneth, which was in the seuenth yeere of the King.
Ezra 7:9	For vpon the first day of the first moneth began he to goe vp from Babel, and on the first day of the fift moneth came he to Ierusalem, according to the good hande of his God that was vpon him.
Ezra 7:10	For Ezra had prepared his heart to seeke the Lawe of the Lord, and to doe it, and to teach the precepts and iudgements in Israel.
Ezra 7:11	And this is the copie of the letter that King Artahshashte gaue vnto Ezra the Priest and scribe, euen a writer of the words of the commadements of ye Lord, and of his statutes ouer Israel.
Ezra 7:12	ARTAHSHASHTE King of Kings to Ezra the Priest and perfite scribe of the Lawe of the God of heauen, and to Cheeneth.
Ezra 7:13	I haue giuen commandement, that euery one, that is willing in my kingdome of the people of Israel, and of the Priestes, and Leuites to goe to Ierusalem with thee, shall goe.
Ezra 7:14	Therefore art thou sent of the King and his seuen counsellers, to enquire in Iudah and Ierusalem, according to the lawe of thy God, which is in thine hand,
Ezra 7:15	And to carry the siluer and the gold, which the King and his cousellers willingly offer vnto the God of Israel (whose habitation is in Ierusalem)
Ezra 7:16	And all the siluer and gold that thou canst finde in all the prouince of Babel, with the free offring of the people, and that which the Priestes offer willingly to the house of their God which is in Ierusalem,
Ezra 7:17	That thou mayest bye speedily with this siluer, bullocks, rammes, lambes, with their meate offrings and their drinke offrings: and thou shalt offer them vpon the altar of the house of your God, which is in Ierusalem.
Ezra 7:18	And whatsoeuer it pleaseth thee and thy brethren to do with the rest of the siluer, and gold, doe ye it according to the will of your God.
Ezra 7:19	And the vessels that are giuen thee for the seruice of the house of thy God, those deliuer thou before God in Ierusalem.
Ezra 7:20	And the residue that shall be needeful for the house of thy God, which shall be meete for thee to bestowe, thou shalt bestowe it out of the Kings treasure house,
Ezra 7:21	And I King Artahshashte haue giuen commandemet to all the treasurers which are beyond the Riuer, that whatsoeuer Ezra the Priest and Scribe of the Law of the God of heauen shall require of you, that it be done incontinently,
Ezra 7:22	Vnto an hundreth talents of siluer, vnto an hundreth measures of wheate, and vnto an hundreth baths of wine, and vnto an hundreth baths of oyle, and salt without writing.
Ezra 7:23	Whatsoeuer is by the commandement of the God of heauen, let it be done speedily for the house of the God of heauen: for why should he be wroth against the realme of the King, and his children?
Ezra 7:24	And we certifie you, that vpon any of the Priestes, Leuites, singers, porters, Nethinims, or Ministers in this house of God, there shall no gouernour laye vpon them tolle, tribute nor custome.
Ezra 7:25	And thou Ezra (after the wisedome of thy God, that is in thine hand) set iudges and arbiters, which may iudge all the people that is beyond the Riuer, euen all that knowe the Lawe of thy God, and teach ye them that know it not.
Ezra 7:26	And whosoeuer will not doe the Lawe of thy God, and the Kings lawe, let him haue iudgement without delay, whether it be vnto death, or to banishment, or to confiscation of goods, or to imprisonment.
Ezra 7:27	Blessed be the Lord God of our fathers, which so hath put in the Kings heart, to beautifie the house of the Lord that is in Ierusalem,
Ezra 7:28	And hath enclined mercy toward me, before the King and his counsellers, and before all the Kings mightie Princes: and I was comforted by the hand of the Lord my God which was vpon me, and I gathered the chiefe of Israel to goe vp with me.
Ezra 8:1	These are now the chiefe fathers of them, and the genealogie of them that came vp with mee from Babel, in the reigne of King Artahshashte.
Ezra 8:2	Of the sonnes of Phinehas, Gershom: of the sonnes of Ithamar, Daniel: of the sonnes of Dauid, Hattush:
Ezra 8:3	Of the sonnes of Shechaniah, of the sonnes of Pharosh, Zechariah, and with him the count of the males, an hundreth and fiftie.
Ezra 8:4	Of the sonnes of Pahath Moab, Elihoenai, the sonne of Zerahiah, and with him two hundreth males.
Ezra 8:5	Of the sonnes of Shechaniah, the sonne of Iahaziel, and with him three hundreth males.
Ezra 8:6	And of the sonnes of Adin, Ebed the sonne of Ionathan, and with him fiftie males.
Ezra 8:7	And of the sonnes of Elam, Ieshaiah the sonne of Athaliah, and with him seuentie males.
Ezra 8:8	And of the sonnes of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the sonne of Michael, and with him fourescore males.
Ezra 8:9	Of the sonnes of Ioab, Obadiah the sonne of Iehiel, and with him two hundreth and eighteene males.
Ezra 8:10	And of the sonnes of Shelomith the sonne of Iosiphiah, and with him an hundreth and threescore males.
Ezra 8:11	And of the sonnes of Bebai, Zechariah the sonne of Bebai, and with him eight and twentie males.
Ezra 8:12	And of the sonnes of Azgad, Iohanan the sonne of Hakkatan, and with him an hundreth and ten males.
Ezra 8:13	And of the sonnes of Adonikam, that were the last, whose names are these: Eliphelet, Iehiel and Shemaiah, and with them three score males.
Ezra 8:14	And of the sonnes of Biguai, Vthai, and Zabbud, and with them seuentie males.
Ezra 8:15	And I gathered them to the Riuer that goeth toward Ahaua, and there abode we three dayes: then I viewed the people, and the Priests, and found there none of the sonnes of Leui.
Ezra 8:16	Therefore sent I to Eliezer, to Ariel, to Shemeiah, and to Elnathan, and to Iarib, and to Elnathan, and to Nathan, and to Zechariah, and to Meshullam the chiefe, and to Ioiarib and to Elnathan, men of vnderstanding,
Ezra 8:17	And I gaue them commandement, to Iddo the chiefest at the place of Casiphia, and I told them the words that they should speake to Iddo, and to his brethren the Nethinims at the place of Casiphia, that they should cause the ministers of the house of our God to come vnto vs.
Ezra 8:18	So by the good hande of our God which was vpon vs, they brought vs a man of vnderstanding of the sonnes of Mahali the sonne of Leui the sonne of Israel, and Sherebiah with his sonnes and his brethren, euen eighteene.
Ezra 8:19	Also Hashabiah, and with him Ieshaiah of the sonnes of Merari, with his brethren, and their sonnes twentie.
Ezra 8:20	And of the Nethinims, whom Dauid had set, and the Princes for the seruice of the Leuites, two hundreth and twentie of the Nethinims, which all were named by name.
Ezra 8:21	And there at the Riuer, by Ahaua, I proclaimed a fast, that we might humble our selues before our God, and seeke of him a right way for vs, and for our children, and for all our substance.
Ezra 8:22	For I was ashamed to require of the King an armie and horsemen, to helpe vs against the enemie in the way, because we had spoken to the King, saying, The hande of our God is vpon all them that seeke him in goodnesse, but his power and his wrath is against all them that forsake him.
Ezra 8:23	So we fasted, aud besought our God for this: and he was intreated of vs.
Ezra 8:24	Then I separated twelue of the chiefe of the Priests, Sherebiah, and Hashabiah, and ten of their brethren with them,
Ezra 8:25	And weighed them the siluer and the gold, and the vessels, euen the offring of ye house of our God, which the King and his counselers, and his Princes, and all Israel that were present had offred.
Ezra 8:26	And I weighed vnto their hand sixe hundreth and fiftie talents of siluer, and in siluer vessel, an hundreth talents, and in golde, an hundreth talents:
Ezra 8:27	And twentie basins of golde, of a thousand drammes, and two vessels of shining brasse very good, and precious as golde.
Ezra 8:28	And I said vnto them, Ye are consecrate vnto the Lord, and the vessels are consecrate, and the gold and the siluer are freely offred vnto the Lord God of your fathers.
Ezra 8:29	Watch ye, and keepe them vntill ye weigh them before the chiefe Priestes and the Leuites, and the chiefe fathers of Israel in Ierusalem in the chambers of the house of the Lord.
Ezra 8:30	So the Priests and the Leuites receiued the weight of the siluer and of the golde, and of the vessels to bring them to Ierusalem, vnto the house of our God.
Ezra 8:31	Then we departed from the Riuer of Ahauah on the twelft day of the first moneth, to go vnto Ierusalem, and the hand of our God was vpon vs, and deliuered vs from the hand of the enemie, and of such as layde waite by the way.
Ezra 8:32	And we came to Ierusalem, and abode there three dayes.
Ezra 8:33	And on ye fourth day was the siluer weighed, and the golde and the vessell in the house of our God by the hand of Meremoth the sonne of Vriah the Priest, and with him was Eleazar the sonne of Phinehas, and with them was Iozabad the sonne of Ieshua, and Noadiah the sonne of Binnui the Leuites,
Ezra 8:34	By number and by weight of euery one, and all the weight was written at the same time.
Ezra 8:35	Also the children of the captiuitie, which were come out of captiuitie, offred burnt offrings vnto the God of Israel, twelue bullockes for all Israel, ninetie and sixe rammes, seuentie and seuen lambes, and twelue hee goates for sinne: all was a burnt offring of the Lord.
Ezra 8:36	And they deliuered the Kings commission vnto the Kings officers, and to the captaines beyond the Riuer: and they promoted the people, and the house of God.
Ezra 9:1	When as these things were done, the rulers came to me, saying, The people of Israel, and the Priestes, and the Leuites are not separated from the people of the lands (as touching their abominations) to wit, of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Iebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites.
Ezra 9:2	For they haue taken their daughters to theselues, and to their sonnes, and they haue mixed the holy seede with the people of the landes, and the hande of the princes and rulers hath bene chiefe in this trespasse.
Ezra 9:3	But when I heard this saying, I rent my clothes and my garment, and pluckt off the heare of mine head, and of my beard, and sate downe astonied.
Ezra 9:4	And there assembled vnto me all that feared the words of the God of Israel, because of the transgression of them of the captiuitie. And I sate downe astonied vntil the euening sacrifice.
Ezra 9:5	And at the euening sacrifice I arose vp from mine heauinesse, and when I had rent my clothes and my garment, I fell vpon my knees, and spred out mine hands vnto the Lord my God,
Ezra 9:6	And said, O my God, I am confounded and ashamed, to lift vp mine eyes vnto thee my God: for our iniquities are increased ouer our head, and our trespasse is growen vp vnto the heauen.
Ezra 9:7	From the dayes of our fathers haue we bin in a great trespasse vnto this day, and for our iniquities haue we, our Kings, and our Priestes bene deliuered into the hand of the kings of the lands, vnto the sword, into captiuitie, into a spoyle, and into confusion of face, as appeareth this day.
Ezra 9:8	And now for a litle space grace hath bene shewed from the Lord our God, in causing a remnant to escape, and in giuing vs a nayle in his holy place, that our God may light our eyes, and giue vs a litle reuiuing in our seruitude.
Ezra 9:9	For though we were bondmen, yet our God hath not forsaken vs in our bondage, but hath enclined mercy vnto vs in the sight of the Kings of Persia, to giue vs life, and to erect the house of our God, and to redresse the places thereof, and to giue vs a wall in Iudah and in Ierusalem.
Ezra 9:10	And nowe, our God, what shall we say after this? for we haue forsaken thy commandements,
Ezra 9:11	Which thou hast commanded by thy seruants the Prophets, saying, The land whereunto ye go to possesse it, is an vncleane land, because of the filthines of the people of the lands, which by their abominations, and by their vncleannes haue filled it from corner to corner.
Ezra 9:12	Now therfore shall ye not giue your daughters vnto their sonnes, neither shall ye take their daughters vnto your sonnes, nor seeke their peace nor wealth for euer, that yee may be strong and eate the goodnes of the lande, and leaue it for an inheritance to your sonnes for euer.
Ezra 9:13	And after all that is come vpon vs for our euill deedes, and for our great trespasses, (seeing that thou our God hast stayed vs from being beneath for our iniquities, and hast giuen vs such deliuerance)
Ezra 9:14	Should we returne to breake thy commadements, and ioyne in affinitie with the people of such abominations? wouldest not thou be angrie towarde vs till thou haddest consumed vs, so that there should be no remnant nor any escaping?
Ezra 9:15	O Lord God of Israel, thou art iust, for we haue bene reserued to escape, as appeareth this day: beholde, we are before thee in our trespasse: therfore we canot stand before thee because of it.
Ezra 10:1	Whiles Ezra prayed thus, and confessed himselfe weeping, and falling downe before the house of God, there assembled vnto him of Israel a very great Congregation of men and women and children: for the people wept with a great lamentation.
Ezra 10:2	Then Shechaniah the sonne of Iehiel one of the sonnes of Elam answered, and sayd to Ezra, We haue trespassed against our God, and haue taken strange wiues of the people of the land, yet nowe there is hope in Israel concerning this.
Ezra 10:3	Now therfore let vs make a couenant with our God, to put away all the wiues (and such as are borne of them) according to the counsell of the Lord, and of those that feare the commandements of our God, and let it be done according to the Lawe.
Ezra 10:4	Arise: for the matter belogeth vnto thee: we also wil be with thee: be of comfort and do it.
Ezra 10:5	Then arose Ezra, and caused the chiefe Priestes, the Leuites, and all Israel, to sweare that they would doe according to this worde. So they sware.
Ezra 10:6	And Ezra rose vp from before the house of God, and went into the chamber of Iohanan the sonne of Eliashib: he went euen thither, but he did eate neither bread, nor drunke water: for he mourned, because of the transgression of them of the captiuitie.
Ezra 10:7	And they caused a proclamation to goe throughout Iudah and Ierusalem, vnto all them of the captiuitie, that they should assemble themselues vnto Ierusalem.
Ezra 10:8	And whosoeuer woulde not come within three dayes according to the counsel of the Princes and Elders, all his substance should be forfait, and he should be separate from the Congregation of them of the captiuitie.
Ezra 10:9	Then all the men of Iudah and Beniamin assembled theselues vnto Ierusalem within three dayes, which was the twentieth day of the ninth moneth, and all the people sate in the streete of the house of God, trembling for this matter, and for the raine.
Ezra 10:10	And Ezra the Priest stoode vp, and said vnto them, Ye haue transgressed, and haue taken strange wiues, to increase the trespasse of Israel.
Ezra 10:11	Now therefore giue praise vnto the Lord God of your fathers, and do his will, and separate your selues from the people of the land, and from the strange wiues.
Ezra 10:12	And all the Congregation answered, and sayd with a loude voyce, So will we do according to thy wordes vnto vs.
Ezra 10:13	But the people are many, and it is a raynie weather, and we are not able to stande without, neither is it the worke of one day or two: for we are many that haue offended in this thing.
Ezra 10:14	Let our rulers stand therefore before all the Congregation, and let all them which haue taken strange wiues in our cities, come at the time appoynted, and with them the Elders of euery citie and the Iudges thereof, til the fierce wrath of our God for this matter turne away from vs.
Ezra 10:15	Then were appoynted Ionathan the sonne of Asah-el, and Iahaziah the sonne of Tikuah ouer this matter, and Meshullam and Shabbethai the Leuites helped them.
Ezra 10:16	And they of the captiuitie did so, and departed, euen Ezra the Priest, and the men that were chiefe fathers to the familie of their fathers by name, and sate downe in the first day of the tenth moneth to examine the matter.
Ezra 10:17	And vntill the first day of the first moneth they were finishing the businesse with al the men that had taken strange wiues.
Ezra 10:18	And of the sonnes of the Priests there were men founde, that had taken strange wiues, to wit, of the sonnes of Ieshua, the sonne of Iozadak, and of his brethren, Maaseiah, Aeliezer, and Iarib and Gedaliah.
Ezra 10:19	And they gaue their hads, that they would put away their wiues, and they that had trespassed, gaue a ramme for their trespasse.
Ezra 10:20	And of the sonnes of Immer, Honani, and Zebadiah.
Ezra 10:21	And of the sonnes of Harim, Maaseiah, and Eliiah, and Shemaiah, and Iehiel, and Vzziah.
Ezra 10:22	And of ye sonnes of Pashur, Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethaneel, Iozabad, and Elasah.
Ezra 10:23	And of the Leuites, Iozabad and Shimei, and Kelaiah, (which is Kelitah) Pethahiah, Iudah and Eliezer.
Ezra 10:24	And of the singers, Eliashib. And of the porters, Shallum, and Telem, and Vri.
Ezra 10:25	And of Israel: of the sonnes of Parosh, Ramiah, and Iesiah, and Malchiah, and Miamin, and Eleazar, and Malchiiah, and Benaiah.
Ezra 10:26	And of the sonnes of Elam, Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Iehiel, and Abdi, and Ieremoth, and Eliah.
Ezra 10:27	And of the sonnes of Zattu, Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, and Ierimoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.
Ezra 10:28	And of the sonnes of Bebai, Iehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, Athlai.
Ezra 10:29	And of the sonnes of Bani, Meshullam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Iashub, and Sheal, Ieramoth.
Ezra 10:30	And of the sonnes of Pahath Moab, Adna, and Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezaleel, and Binnui, and Manasseh.
Ezra 10:31	And of the sonnes of Harim, Eliezer, Ishiiah, Malchiah, Shemaiah, Shimeon,
Ezra 10:32	Beniamin, Malluch, Shamariah.
Ezra 10:33	Of the sonnes of Hashum, Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Ieremai, Manasseh, Shimei.
Ezra 10:34	Of the sonnes of Bani, Maadai, Amram, and Vel,
Ezra 10:35	Banaiah, Bediah, Chelluh,
Ezra 10:36	Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,
Ezra 10:37	Mattaniah, Mattenai, and Iaasau,
Ezra 10:38	And Banni, and Bennui, Shimei,
Ezra 10:39	And Shelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah,
Ezra 10:40	Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,
Ezra 10:41	Azareel, and Shelemiah, Shemariah,
Ezra 10:42	Shallum, Amariah, Ioseph.
Ezra 10:43	Of the sonnes of Nebo, Ieiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Iadau, and Ioel, Benaiah.
Ezra 10:44	All these had taken strange wiues: and among them were women that had children.

===== BOOK: Galatians =====
Galatians 1:1	Pavl an Apostle (not of men, neither by man, but by Iesus Christ, and God the Father which hath raised him from the dead)
Galatians 1:2	And all the brethren which are with me, vnto the Churches of Galatia:
Galatians 1:3	Grace be with you, and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Iesus Christ,
Galatians 1:4	Which gaue himself for our sinnes, that he might deliuer vs from this present euill world according to the will of God euen our Father,
Galatians 1:5	To whom be glory for euer and euer, Amen.
Galatians 1:6	I marueile that ye are so soone remoued away vnto another Gospel, from him that had called you in the grace of Christ,
Galatians 1:7	Which is not another Gospel, saue that there be some which trouble you, and intend to peruert the Gospel of Christ.
Galatians 1:8	But though that we, or an Angel from heauen preach vnto you otherwise, then that which we haue preached vnto you, let him be accursed.
Galatians 1:9	As we sayd before, so say I now againe, If any man preach vnto you otherwise, then that ye haue receiued, let him be accursed.
Galatians 1:10	For nowe preach I mans doctrine, or Gods? or go I about to please men? for if I should yet please men, I were not the seruant of Christ.
Galatians 1:11	Now I certifie you, brethren, that ye Gospel which was preached of me, was not after man.
Galatians 1:12	For neither receiued I it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the reuelation of Iesus Christ.
Galatians 1:13	For ye haue heard of my conuersation in time past, in the Iewish religion, how that I persecuted the Church of God extremely, and wasted it,
Galatians 1:14	And profited in the Iewish religion aboue many of my companions of mine owne nation, and was much more zealous of the traditions of my fathers.
Galatians 1:15	But when it pleased God (which had separated me from my mothers wombe, and called me by his grace)
Galatians 1:16	To reueile his Sonne in me, that I should preach him among the Gentiles, immediatly I communicated not with flesh and blood:
Galatians 1:17	Neither came I againe to Hierusalem to them which were Apostles before me, but I went into Arabia, and turned againe vnto Damascus.
Galatians 1:18	Then after three yeeres I came againe to Hierusalem to visite Peter, and abode with him fifteene dayes.
Galatians 1:19	And none other of the Apostles sawe I, saue Iames the Lords brother.
Galatians 1:20	Nowe the things which I write vnto you, beholde, I witnes before God, that I lie not.
Galatians 1:21	After that, I went into the coastes of Syria and Cilicia: for I was vnknowen by face vnto the Churches of Iudea, which were in Christ.
Galatians 1:22	But they had heard onely some say, Hee which persecuted vs in time past, nowe preacheth the faith which before he destroyed.
Galatians 1:23	And they glorified God for me.
Galatians 2:1	Then fourteene yeeres after, I went vp againe to Hierusalem with Barnabas, and tooke with me Titus also.
Galatians 2:2	And I went vp by reuelation, and declared vnto them that Gospel which I preach among the Gentiles, but particularly to them that were the chiefe, least by any meanes I should runne, or had runne in vaine:
Galatians 2:3	But neither yet Titus which was with me, though he were a Grecian, was compelled to be circumcised,
Galatians 2:4	To wit, for the false brethren which were craftily sent in, and crept in priuily to spie out our libertie, which we haue in Christ Iesus, that they might bring vs into bondage.
Galatians 2:5	To whom we gaue not place by subiection for an houre, that the trueth of the Gospel might continue with you.
Galatians 2:6	But by them which seemed to be great, I was not taught (whatsoeuer they were in time passed, I am nothing the better: God accepteth no mans person) for they that are the chiefe, did adde nothing to me aboue that I had.
Galatians 2:7	But contrariwise, when they saw that ye Gospel ouer ye vncircumcision was comitted vnto me, as the Gospel ouer ye circumcision was vnto Peter:
Galatians 2:8	(For he that was mightie by Peter in the Apostleship ouer the circumcision, was also mightie by me toward the Gentiles)
Galatians 2:9	And when Iames, and Cephas, and Iohn, knew of the grace that was giuen vnto me, which are counted to be pillars, they gaue to me and to Barnabas the right hands of fellowship, that we should preach vnto the Gentiles, and they vnto the Circumcision,
Galatians 2:10	Warning onely that we should remember the poore: which thing also I was diligent to doe.
Galatians 2:11	And when Peter was come to Antiochia, I withstood him to his face: for he was to be condemned.
Galatians 2:12	For before that certaine came from Iames, he ate with the Gentiles: but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himselfe, fearing them which were of the Circumcision.
Galatians 2:13	And the other Iewes played the hypocrites likewise with him, in so much that Barnabas was led away with them by that their hypocrisie.
Galatians 2:14	But when I saw, that they went not ye right way to the trueth of ye Gospel, I sayd vnto Peter before all men, If thou being a Iewe, liuest as the Gentiles, and not like the Iewes, why constrainest thou the Gentiles to doe like the Iewes?
Galatians 2:15	We which are Iewes by nature, and not sinners of the Gentiles,
Galatians 2:16	Knowe that a man is not iustified by the works of the Law, but by ye faith of Iesus Christ, euen we, I say, haue beleeued in Iesus Christ, that we might be iustified by the faith of Christ, and not by the workes of the Lawe, because that by the workes of the Lawe, no flesh shalbe iustified.
Galatians 2:17	If then while we seeke to be made righteous by Christ, we our selues are found sinners, is Christ therefore the minister of sinne? God forbid.
Galatians 2:18	For if I build againe the things that I haue destroyed, I make my selfe a trespasser.
Galatians 2:19	For I through the Lawe am dead to the Lawe, that I might liue vnto God.
Galatians 2:20	I am crucified with Christ, but I liue, yet not I any more, but Christ liueth in me: and in that that I now liue in the flesh, I liue by the faith in the Sonne of God, who hath loued me, and giuen him selfe for me.
Galatians 2:21	I doe not abrogate the grace of God: for if righteousnes be by the Lawe, then Christ dyed without a cause.
Galatians 3:1	O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you, that ye should not obey the trueth, to whome Iesus Christ before was described in your sight, and among you crucified?
Galatians 3:2	This only would I learne of you, Receiued ye the Spirit by the workes of the Lawe, or by the hearing of faith preached?
Galatians 3:3	Are ye so foolish, that after ye haue begun in the Spirit, ye would now be made perfect by the flesh?
Galatians 3:4	Haue ye suffered so many things in vaine? if so be it be euen in vaine.
Galatians 3:5	He therefore that ministreth to you the Spirit, and worketh miracles among you, doeth he it through the workes of the Law, or by the hearing of faith preached?
Galatians 3:6	Yea rather as Abraham beleeued God, and it was imputed to him for righteousnes.
Galatians 3:7	Knowe ye therefore, that they which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham.
Galatians 3:8	For the Scripture foreseeing, that God would iustifie the Gentiles through faith, preached before the Gospel vnto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all the Gentiles be blessed.
Galatians 3:9	So then they which be of faith, are blessed with faithfull Abraham.
Galatians 3:10	For as many as are of the workes of the Lawe, are vnder the curse: for it is written, Cursed is euery man that continueth not in all things, which are written in the booke of the Law, to doe them.
Galatians 3:11	And that no man is iustified by the Law in the sight of God, it is euident: for the iust shall liue by faith.
Galatians 3:12	And the Lawe is not of faith: but the man that shall doe those things, shall liue in them.
Galatians 3:13	Christ hath redeemed vs from the curse of the Lawe, made a curse for vs, (for it is written, Cursed is euery one that hangeth on tree)
Galatians 3:14	That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Christ Iesus, that wee might receiue the promise of the Spirite through faith.
Galatians 3:15	Brethren, I speake as men do: though it be but a mans couenant, when it is confirmed, yet no man doeth abrogate it, or addeth any thing thereto.
Galatians 3:16	Nowe to Abraham and his seede were the promises made. Hee saith not, And to the seedes, as speaking of many: but, And to thy seede, as of one, which is Christ.
Galatians 3:17	And this I say, that the couenant that was confirmed afore of God in respect of Christ, the Lawe which was foure hundreth and thirtie yeeres after, can not disanull, that it shoulde make the promise of none effect.
Galatians 3:18	For if the inheritance be of the Lawe, it is no more by the promise, but God gaue it freely vnto Abraham by promise.
Galatians 3:19	Wherefore then serueth the Law? It was added because of the transgressions, til the seed came, vnto the which the promise was made: and it was ordeined by Angels in the hande of a Mediatour.
Galatians 3:20	Nowe a Mediatour is not a Mediatour of one: but God is one.
Galatians 3:21	Is the Lawe then against the promises of God? God forbid: For if there had bene a Lawe giuen which coulde haue giuen life, surely righteousnes should haue bene by the Lawe.
Galatians 3:22	But the Scripture hath concluded all vnder sinne, that the promise by the faith of Iesus Christ should be giuen to them that beleeue.
Galatians 3:23	But before faith came, we were kept vnder the Law, as vnder a garison, and shut vp vnto that faith, which should afterward be reueiled.
Galatians 3:24	Wherefore the Lawe was our scholemaster to bring vs to Christ, that we might be made righteous by faith.
Galatians 3:25	But after that faith is come, we are no longer vnder a scholemaster.
Galatians 3:26	For ye are al the sonnes of God by faith, in Christ Iesus.
Galatians 3:27	For all ye that are baptized into Christ, haue put on Christ.
Galatians 3:28	There is neither Iewe nor Grecian: there is neither bonde nor free: there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Iesus.
Galatians 3:29	And if ye be Christes, then are ye Abrahams seede, and heires by promise.
Galatians 4:1	Then I say, that the heire as long as hee is a childe, differeth nothing from a seruant, though he be Lord of all,
Galatians 4:2	But is vnder tutours and gouernours, vntil the time appointed of the Father.
Galatians 4:3	Euen so, we when wee were children, were in bondage vnder the rudiments of the world.
Galatians 4:4	But when the fulnesse of time was come, God sent forth his Sonne made of a woman, and made vnder the Lawe,
Galatians 4:5	That hee might redeeme them which were vnder the Law, that we might receiue the adoption of the sonnes.
Galatians 4:6	And because ye are sonnes, God hath sent foorth the Spirit of his Sonne into your heartes, which crieth, Abba, Father.
Galatians 4:7	Wherefore, thou art no more a seruant, but a sonne: now if thou be a sone, thou art also the heire of God through Christ.
Galatians 4:8	But euen then, when ye knewe not God, yee did seruice vnto them, which by nature are not gods:
Galatians 4:9	But now seeing ye knowe God, yea, rather are knowen of God, howe turne ye againe vnto impotent and beggerly rudiments, whereunto as from the beginning ye wil be in bondage againe?
Galatians 4:10	Ye obserue dayes, and moneths, and times and yeeres.
Galatians 4:11	I am in feare of you, lest I haue bestowed on you labour in vaine.
Galatians 4:12	Be ye as I (for I am euen as you) brethren, I beseech you: ye haue not hurt me at all.
Galatians 4:13	And ye know, how through infirmitie of the flesh, I preached ye Gospel vnto you at the first.
Galatians 4:14	And the trial of me which was in my flesh, ye despised not, neither abhorred: but ye receiued me as an Angel of God, yea, as Christ Iesus.
Galatians 4:15	What was then your felicitie? for I beare you recorde, that if it had bene possible, ye would haue plucked out your owne eyes, and haue giuen them vnto me.
Galatians 4:16	Am I therefore become your enemie, because I tell you the trueth?
Galatians 4:17	They are ielous ouer you amisse: yea, they woulde exclude you, that ye shoulde altogether loue them.
Galatians 4:18	But it is a good thing to loue earnestly alwayes in a good thing, and not onely when I am present with you,
Galatians 4:19	My litle children, of whome I trauaile in birth againe, vntill Christ be formed in you.
Galatians 4:20	And I would I were with you nowe, that I might change my voyce: for I am in doubt of you.
Galatians 4:21	Tell me, ye that will be vnder the Law, doe ye not heare the Lawe?
Galatians 4:22	For it is written, that Abraham had two sonnes, one by a seruant, and one by a free woman.
Galatians 4:23	But he which was of the seruant, was borne after the flesh: and he which was of the free woman, was borne by promise.
Galatians 4:24	By the which things another thing is meant: for these mothers are the two testaments, the one which is Agar of mount Sina, which gendreth vnto bondage.
Galatians 4:25	(For Agar or Sina is a mountaine in Arabia, and it answereth to Hierusalem which nowe is) and she is in bondage with her children.
Galatians 4:26	But Hierusalem, which is aboue, is free: which is the mother of vs all.
Galatians 4:27	For it is written, Reioyce thou barren that bearest no children: breake forth, and cry, thou that trauailest not: for the desolate hath many moe children, then she which hath an husband.
Galatians 4:28	Therefore, brethren, wee are after the maner of Isaac, children of the promise.
Galatians 4:29	But as then hee that was borne after the flesh, persecuted him that was borne after the Spirit, euen so it is nowe.
Galatians 4:30	But what sayth the Scripture? Put out the seruant and her sonne: for the sonne of the seruant shall not be heire with the sonne of the free woman.
Galatians 4:31	Then brethren, we are not children of the seruant, but of the free woman.
Galatians 5:1	Stand fast therefore in the libertie wherewith Christ hath made vs free, and be not intangled againe with the yoke of bondage.
Galatians 5:2	Beholde, I Paul say vnto you, that if yee be circumcised, Christ shall profite you nothing.
Galatians 5:3	For I testifie againe to euery man, which is circumcised, that he is bound to keepe the whole Lawe.
Galatians 5:4	Ye are abolished from Christ: whosoeuer are iustified by the Law, ye are fallen from grace.
Galatians 5:5	For we through the Spirit waite for the hope of righteousnes through faith.
Galatians 5:6	For in Iesus Christ neither circumcision auaileth any thing, neither vncircumcision, but faith which worketh by loue.
Galatians 5:7	Ye did runne well: who did let you, that ye did not obey the trueth?
Galatians 5:8	It is not the perswasion of him that calleth you.
Galatians 5:9	A litle leauen doeth leauen the whole lumpe.
Galatians 5:10	I haue trust in you through the Lord, that ye will be none otherwise minded: but hee that troubleth you, shall beare his condemnation, whosoeuer he be.
Galatians 5:11	And brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why doe I yet suffer persecution? Then is the slaunder of the crosse abolished.
Galatians 5:12	Would to God they were euen cut off, which doe disquiet you.
Galatians 5:13	For brethren, ye haue bene called vnto libertie: onely vse not your libertie as an occasion vnto the flesh, but by loue serue one another.
Galatians 5:14	For all the Lawe is fulfilled in one worde, which is this, Thou shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe.
Galatians 5:15	If ye bite and deuoure one another, take heede least ye be consumed one of another.
Galatians 5:16	Then I say, Walke in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lustes of the flesh.
Galatians 5:17	For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary one to another, so that ye can not doe the same things that ye would.
Galatians 5:18	And if ye be led by the Spirit, ye are not vnder the Lawe.
Galatians 5:19	Moreouer the workes of the flesh are manifest, which are adulterie, fornication, vncleannes, wantonnes,
Galatians 5:20	Idolatrie, witchcraft, hatred, debate, emulations, wrath, contentions, seditions, heresies,
Galatians 5:21	Enuie, murthers, drunkennesse, gluttonie, and such like, whereof I tell you before, as I also haue tolde you before, that they which doe such things, shall not inherite the kingdome of God.
Galatians 5:22	But the fruite of the Spirit is loue, ioye, peace, long suffering, gentlenes, goodnes, fayth,
Galatians 5:23	Meekenesse, temperancie: against such there is no lawe.
Galatians 5:24	For they that are Christes, haue crucified the flesh with the affections and the lustes.
Galatians 5:25	If we liue in the Spirit, let vs also walke in the Spirit.
Galatians 5:26	Let vs not be desirous of vaine glorie, prouoking one another, enuying one another.
Galatians 6:1	Brethren, if a man be suddenly taken in any offence, ye which are spirituall, restore such one with the spirit of meekenes, considering thy selfe, least thou also be tempted.
Galatians 6:2	Beare ye one anothers burden, and so fulfill the Lawe of Christ.
Galatians 6:3	For if any man seeme to himselfe, that he is somewhat, when he is nothing, hee deceiueth himselfe in his imagination.
Galatians 6:4	But let euery man prooue his owne worke: and then shall he haue reioycing in himselfe onely and not in another.
Galatians 6:5	For euery man shall beare his owne burden.
Galatians 6:6	Let him that is taught in the worde, make him that hath taught him, partaker of all his goods.
Galatians 6:7	Be not deceiued: God is not mocked: for whatsoeuer a man soweth, that shall hee also reape.
Galatians 6:8	For hee that soweth to his flesh, shall of the flesh reape corruption: but hee that soweth to the spirit, shall of the spirit reape life euerlasting.
Galatians 6:9	Let vs not therefore be weary of well doing: for in due season we shall reape, if we faint not.
Galatians 6:10	While we haue therefore time, let vs doe good vnto all men, but specially vnto them, which are of the housholde of faith.
Galatians 6:11	Ye see how large a letter I haue written vnto you with mine owne hand.
Galatians 6:12	As many as desire to make a faire shewe in the flesh, they constraine you to be circumcised, onely because they would not suffer persecution for the crosse of Christ.
Galatians 6:13	For they themselues which are circumcised keepe not the law, but desire to haue you circumcised, that they might reioyce in your flesh.
Galatians 6:14	But God forbid that I should reioyce, but in ye crosse of our Lord Iesus Christ, whereby the world is crucified vnto me, and I vnto ye world.
Galatians 6:15	For in Christ Iesus neither circumcision auaileth any thing, nor vncircumcision, but a newe creature.
Galatians 6:16	And as many as walke according to this rule, peace shalbe vpon them, and mercie, and vpon the Israel of God.
Galatians 6:17	From henceforth let no man put me to busines: for I beare in my body the markes of the Lord Iesus.
Galatians 6:18	Brethren, the grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with your spirit, Amen. ‘Vnto the Galatians written from Rome.’

===== BOOK: Genesis =====
Genesis 1:1	In the beginning God created the heauen and the earth.
Genesis 1:2	And the earth was without forme and void, and darkenesse was vpon the deepe, and the Spirit of God mooued vpon the waters.
Genesis 1:3	Then God said, Let there be light: And there was light.
Genesis 1:4	And God saw the light that it was good, and God separated the light from the darkenes.
Genesis 1:5	And God called the Light, Day, and the darkenes, he called Night. So the euening and the morning were the first day.
Genesis 1:6	Againe God said, Let there be a firmament in the mids of the waters: and let it separate the waters from the waters.
Genesis 1:7	Then God made the firmament, and separated the waters, which were vnder the firmament, from the waters which were aboue the firmament: and it was so.
Genesis 1:8	And God called the firmament Heauen. So the Euening and the morning were the second day.
Genesis 1:9	God said againe, Let the waters vnder the heauen be gathered into one place, and let the dry land appeare. and it was so.
Genesis 1:10	And God called the dry land, Earth, and he called the gathering together of the waters, Seas: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:11	Then God said, Let the earth bud forth the bud of the herbe, that seedeth seed, the fruitfull tree, which beareth fruite according to his kinde, which hath his seede in it selfe vpon the earth: and it was so.
Genesis 1:12	And the earth brought foorth the bud of the herbe, that seedeth seede according to his kind, also the tree that beareth fruit, which hath his seed in it selfe according to his kinde: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:13	So the euening and the morning were the third day.
Genesis 1:14	And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heauen, to separate the day from the night, and let them be for signes, and for seasons, and for dayes and yeeres.
Genesis 1:15	And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heauen to giue light vpon the earth: and it was so.
Genesis 1:16	God then made two great lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesse light to rule the night: he made also the starres.
Genesis 1:17	And God set them in the firmament of the heauen, to shine vpon the earth,
Genesis 1:18	And to rule in the day, and in the night, and to separate the light from the darkenesse: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:19	So the euening and the morning were the fourth day.
Genesis 1:20	Afterward God said, Let the waters bring foorth in abundance euery creeping thing that hath life: and let the foule flie vpon the earth in the open firmament of the heauen.
Genesis 1:21	Then God created the great whales, and euery thing liuing and mouing, which the waters brought foorth in abundance according to their kinde, and euery fethered foule according to his kinde: and God sawe that it was good.
Genesis 1:22	Then God blessed them, saying, Bring foorth fruite and multiplie, and fill the waters in the seas, and let the foule multiplie in the earth.
Genesis 1:23	So the euening and the morning were the fifte day.
Genesis 1:24	Moreouer God said, Let the earth bring foorth the liuing thing according to his kinde, cattel, and that which creepeth, and the beast of the earth, according to his kinde. and it was so.
Genesis 1:25	And God made the beast of the earth according to his kinde, and the cattell according to his kinde, and euery creeping thing of the earth according to his kind: and God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:26	Furthermore God said, Let vs make man in our image according to our likenes, and let them rule ouer the fish of the sea, and ouer the foule of the heauen, and ouer the beastes, and ouer all the earth, and ouer euery thing that creepeth and moueth on the earth.
Genesis 1:27	Thus God created the man in his image: in the image of God created he him: he created them male and female.
Genesis 1:28	And God blessed them, and God said to them, Bring forth fruite and multiplie, and fill the earth, and subdue it, and rule ouer the fish of the sea, and ouer the foule of the heauen, and ouer euery beast that moueth vpon the earth.
Genesis 1:29	And God said, Beholde, I haue giuen vnto you euery herbe bearing seede, which is vpon al the earth, and euery tree, wherein is the fruite of a tree bearing seede: that shall be to you for meate.
Genesis 1:30	Likewise to euery beast of the earth, and to euery foule of the heauen, and to euery thing that moueth vpon the earth, which hath life in it selfe, euery greene herbe shall be for meate. and it was so.
Genesis 1:31	And God sawe all that he had made, and loe, it was very good. So the euening and the morning were the sixt day.
Genesis 2:1	Thus the heauens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.
Genesis 2:2	For in the seuenth day GOD ended his worke which he had made, and the seuenth day he rested from al his worke, which he had made.
Genesis 2:3	So God blessed the seuenth day, and sanctified it, because that in it he had rested from all his worke, which God had created and made.
Genesis 2:4	These are the generations of the heauens and of the earth, when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heauens,
Genesis 2:5	And euery plant of the fielde, before it was in the earth, and euery herbe of the field, before it grewe: for the Lord God had not caused it to raine vpon the earth, neither was there a man to till the ground,
Genesis 2:6	But a myst went vp from the earth, and watered all the earth.
Genesis 2:7	The Lord God also made the man of the dust of the grounde, and breathed in his face breath of life, and the man was a liuing soule.
Genesis 2:8	And the Lord God planted a garden Eastward in Eden, and there he put the man whom he had made.
Genesis 2:9	(For out of the ground made the Lord God to grow euery tree pleasant to the sight, and good for meate: the tree of life also in the mids of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and of euill.
Genesis 2:10	And out of Eden went a riuer to water the garden, and from thence it was deuided, and became into foure heads.
Genesis 2:11	The name of one is Pishon: the same compasseth the whole land of Hauilah, where is golde.
Genesis 2:12	And the golde of that land is good: there is Bdelium, and the Onix stone.
Genesis 2:13	And the name of the seconde riuer is Gihon: the same compasseth the whole lande of Cush.
Genesis 2:14	The name also of the third riuer is Hiddekel: this goeth toward the Eastside of Asshur: and the fourth riuer is Perath)
Genesis 2:15	Then the Lord God tooke the man, and put him into the garden of Eden, that he might dresse it and keepe it.
Genesis 2:16	And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Thou shalt eate freely of euery tree of the garden,
Genesis 2:17	But of the tree of knowledge of good and euill, thou shalt not eate of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt die the death.
Genesis 2:18	Also the Lord God saide, It is not good that the man should be himself alone: I wil make him an helpe meete for him.
Genesis 2:19	So the Lord God formed of the earth euery beast of the fielde, and euery foule of the heauen, and brought them vnto the man to see howe he would call them: for howsoeuer the man named the liuing creature, so was the name thereof.
Genesis 2:20	The man therefore gaue names vnto all cattell, and to the foule of the heauen, and to euery beast of the fielde: but for Adam founde he not an helpe meete for him.
Genesis 2:21	Therefore the Lord God caused an heauie sleepe to fall vpon the man, and he slept: and he tooke one of his ribbes, and closed vp the flesh in steade thereof.
Genesis 2:22	And the ribbe which the Lord God had taken from the man, made he a woman, and brought her to the man.
Genesis 2:23	Then the man said, This now is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She shalbe called woman, because she was taken out of man.
Genesis 2:24	Therefore shall man leaue his father and his mother, and shall cleaue to his wife, and they shall be one flesh.
Genesis 2:25	And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.
Genesis 3:1	Now the serpent was more subtill then any beast of the fielde, which the Lord God had made: and he said to the woman, Yea, hath God in deede said, Ye shall not eate of euery tree of the garden?
Genesis 3:2	And the woman said vnto the serpent, We eate of the fruite of the trees of the garden,
Genesis 3:3	But of the fruite of the tree which is in the middes of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eate of it, neither shall ye touche it, lest ye die.
Genesis 3:4	Then the serpent said to the woman, Ye shall not die at all,
Genesis 3:5	But God doeth knowe, that when ye shall eate thereof, your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and euill.
Genesis 3:6	So the woman (seeing that the tree was good for meate, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to get knowledge) tooke of the fruite thereof, and did eate, and gaue also to her husband with her, and he did eate.
Genesis 3:7	Then the eyes of them both were opened, and they knewe that they were naked, and they sewed figge tree leaues together, and made them selues breeches.
Genesis 3:8	Afterward they heard the voyce of the Lord God walking in the garden in the coole of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselues from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden.
Genesis 3:9	But the Lord God called to the man, and said vnto him, Where art thou?
Genesis 3:10	Who saide, I heard thy voyce in the garden, and was afraide: because I was naked, therefore I hid my selfe.
Genesis 3:11	And he saide, Who tolde thee, that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eate?
Genesis 3:12	Then the man saide, The woman which thou gauest to be with me, she gaue me of the tree, and I did eate.
Genesis 3:13	And the Lord God saide to the woman, Why hast thou done this? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eate.
Genesis 3:14	Then the Lord God said to the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed aboue all cattell, and aboue euery beast of the fielde: vpon thy belly shalt thou goe, and dust shalt thou eate all the dayes of thy life.
Genesis 3:15	I will also put enimitie betweene thee and the woman, and betweene thy seede and her seede. He shall breake thine head, and thou shalt bruise his heele.
Genesis 3:16	Vnto the woman he said, I will greatly increase thy sorowes, and thy conceptions. In sorowe shalt thou bring foorth children, and thy desire shalbe subiect to thine husband, and he shall rule ouer thee.
Genesis 3:17	Also to Adam he said, Because thou hast obeyed the voyce of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, (whereof I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eate of it) cursed is the earth for thy sake: in sorowe shalt thou eate of it all the dayes of thy life.
Genesis 3:18	Thornes also, and thistles shall it bring foorth to thee, and thou shalt eate the herbe of the fielde.
Genesis 3:19	In the sweate of thy face shalt thou eate bread, till thou returne to the earth: for out of it wast thou taken, because thou art dust, and to dust shalt thou returne.
Genesis 3:20	(And the man called his wiues name Heuah, because she was the mother of all liuing)
Genesis 3:21	Vnto Adam also and to his wife did the Lord God make coates of skinnes, and clothed them.
Genesis 3:22	And the Lord God said, Beholde, the man is become as one of vs, to knowe good and euill. And nowe lest he put foorth his hand, and take also of ye tree of life and eate and liue for euer,
Genesis 3:23	Therefore the Lord God sent him foorth from the garden of Eden, to till ye earth, whence he was taken.
Genesis 3:24	Thus he cast out man, and at the East side of the garden of Eden he set the Cherubims, and the blade of a sworde shaken, to keepe the way of the tree of life.
Genesis 4:1	Afterward the man knew Heuah his wife, which conceiued and bare Kain, and said, I haue obteined a man by the Lord.
Genesis 4:2	And againe she brought foorth his brother Habel, and Habel was a keeper of sheepe, and Kain was a tiller of the ground.
Genesis 4:3	And in processe of time it came to passe, that Kain brought an oblation vnto the Lord of the fruite of the ground.
Genesis 4:4	And Habel also him selfe brought of the first fruites of his sheepe, and of the fat of them, and the Lord had respect vnto Habel, and to his offering,
Genesis 4:5	But vnto Kain and to his offering he had no regarde: wherefore Kain was exceeding wroth, and his countenance fell downe.
Genesis 4:6	Then ye Lord said vnto Kain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance cast downe?
Genesis 4:7	If thou do well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well, sinne lieth at the doore: also vnto thee his desire shalbe subiect, and thou shalt rule ouer him.
Genesis 4:8	Then Kain spake to Habel his brother. And when they were in the fielde, Kain rose vp against Habel his brother, and slewe him.
Genesis 4:9	Then the Lord said vnto Kain, Where is Habel thy brother? Who answered, I cannot tell. Am I my brothers keeper?
Genesis 4:10	Againe he said, What hast thou done? the voyce of thy brothers blood cryeth vnto me from the earth.
Genesis 4:11	Now therefore thou art cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receiue thy brothers blood from thine hand.
Genesis 4:12	When thou shalt till the grounde, it shall not henceforth yeelde vnto thee her strength: a vagabond and a runnagate shalt thou be in the earth.
Genesis 4:13	Then Kain said to the Lord, My punishment is greater, then I can beare.
Genesis 4:14	Behold, thou hast cast me out this day from the earth, and from thy face shall I be hid, and shalbe a vagabond, and a runnagate in the earth, and whosoeuer findeth me, shall slay me.
Genesis 4:15	Then the Lord said vnto him, Doubtlesse whosoeuer slayeth Kain, he shalbe punished seue folde. And the Lord set a marke vpon Kain, lest any man finding him should kill him.
Genesis 4:16	Then Kain went out from the presence of the Lord, and dwelt in the land of Nod towarde the Eastside of Eden.
Genesis 4:17	Kain also knewe his wife, which conceiued and bare Henoch: and he built a citie, and called the name of the citie by ye name of his sonne, Henoch.
Genesis 4:18	And to Henoch was borne Irad, and Irad begate Mehuiael, and Mehuiael begate Methushael, and Methushael begate Lamech.
Genesis 4:19	And Lamech tooke him two wiues: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.
Genesis 4:20	And Adah bare Iabal, who was the father of such as dwell in the tents, and of such as haue cattell.
Genesis 4:21	And his brothers name was Iubal, who was the father of all that play on the harpe and organes.
Genesis 4:22	And Zillah also bare Tubal-kain, who wrought cunningly euery craft of brasse and of yron: and the sister of Tubal-kain was Naamah.
Genesis 4:23	Then Lamech saide vnto his wiues Adah and Zillah, Heare my voyce, ye wiues of Lamech: hearken vnto my speach: for I would slay a man in my wound, and a yong man in mine hurt.
Genesis 4:24	If Kain shalbe auenged seuen folde, truely Lamech, seuentie times seuen folde.
Genesis 4:25	And Adam knewe his wife againe, and she bare a sonne, and she called his name Sheth: for God, saide she, hath appointed me another seede for Habel, because Kain slewe him.
Genesis 4:26	And to ye same Sheth also there was borne a sonne, and he called his name Enosh. Then beganne men to call vpon the name of the Lord.
Genesis 5:1	This is the booke of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created Adam, in the likenes of God made he him,
Genesis 5:2	Male and female created he them, and blessed them, and called their name Adam in the day that they were created.
Genesis 5:3	Nowe Adam liued an hundred and thirtie yeeres, and begate a childe in his owne likenes after his image, and called his name Sheth.
Genesis 5:4	And the dayes of Adam, after he had begotten Sheth, were eight hundreth yeeres, and he begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 5:5	So all the dayes that Adam liued, were nine hundreth and thirtie yeeres: and he died.
Genesis 5:6	And Sheth liued an hundreth and fiue yeeres, and begate Enosh.
Genesis 5:7	And Sheth liued, after he begate Enosh, eight hundreth and seuen yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 5:8	So all the dayes of Sheth were nine hundreth and twelue yeeres: and he died.
Genesis 5:9	Also Enosh liued ninetie yeeres, and begate Kenan.
Genesis 5:10	And Enosh liued, after he begate Kenan, eight hundreth and fifteene yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 5:11	So all the dayes of Enosh were nine hundreth and fiue yeeres: and he died
Genesis 5:12	Likewise Kenan liued seuentie yeeres, and begate Mahalaleel.
Genesis 5:13	And Kenan liued, after he begate Mahalaleel, eight hundreth and fourtie yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 5:14	So all the dayes of Kenan were nine hundreth and tenne yeeres: and he died.
Genesis 5:15	Mahalaleel also liued sixtie and fiue yeres, and begate Iered.
Genesis 5:16	Also Mahalaleel liued, after he begate Iered, eight hundreth and thirtie yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 5:17	So all the dayes of Mahalaleel were eight hundreth ninetie and fiue yeeres: and he died.
Genesis 5:18	And Iered liued an hundreth sixtie and two yeeres, and begate Henoch.
Genesis 5:19	Then Iered liued, after he begate Henoch, eight hundreth yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 5:20	So all the dayes of Iered were nine hundreth sixtie and two yeeres: and he died.
Genesis 5:21	Also Henoch liued sixtie and fiue yeeres, and begate Methushelah.
Genesis 5:22	And Henoch walked with God, after he begate Methushelah, three hundreth yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 5:23	So all the dayes of Henoch were three hundreth sixtie and fiue yeeres.
Genesis 5:24	And Henoch walked with God, and he was no more seene: for God tooke him away.
Genesis 5:25	Methushelah also liued an hundreth eightie and seuen yeeres, and begate Lamech.
Genesis 5:26	And Methushelah liued, after he begate Lamech, seuen hundreth eightie and two yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 5:27	So al the dayes of Methushelah were nine hundreth sixtie and nine yeeres: and he died.
Genesis 5:28	Then Lamech liued an hundreth eightie and two yeeres, and begate a sonne,
Genesis 5:29	And called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort vs concerning our worke and sorowe of our hands, as touching the earth, which the Lord hath cursed.
Genesis 5:30	And Lamech liued, after he begate Noah, fiue hundreth ninetie and fiue yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 5:31	So all the dayes of Lamech were seuen hundreth seuentie and seuen yeeres: and he died.
Genesis 5:32	And Noah was fiue hundreth yeere olde. And Noah begate Shem, Ham and Iapheth.
Genesis 6:1	So when men began to be multiplied vpon the earth, and there were daughters borne vnto them,
Genesis 6:2	Then the sonnes of God sawe the daughters of men that they were faire, and they tooke them wiues of all that they liked.
Genesis 6:3	Therefore the Lord saide, My Spirit shall not alway striue with man, because he is but flesh, and his dayes shalbe an hundreth and twentie yeeres.
Genesis 6:4	There were gyants in the earth in those dayes: yea, and after that the sonnes of God came vnto the daughters of men, and they had borne them children, these were mightie men, which in olde time were men of renoume.
Genesis 6:5	When the Lord sawe that the wickednesse of man was great in the earth, and all the imaginations of the thoughtes of his heart were onely euill continually,
Genesis 6:6	Then it repented ye Lord, that he had made man in the earth, and he was sorie in his heart.
Genesis 6:7	Therefore ye Lord said, I will destroy from the earth the man, whom I haue created, from man to beast, to the creeping thing, and to the foule of the heauen: for I repent that I haue made them.
Genesis 6:8	But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord.
Genesis 6:9	These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a iust and vpright man in his time: and Noah walked with God.
Genesis 6:10	And Noah begate three sonnes, Shem, Ham and Iapheth.
Genesis 6:11	The earth also was corrupt before God: for the earth was filled with crueltie.
Genesis 6:12	Then God looked vpon the earth, and beholde, it was corrupt: for all flesh had corrupt his way vpon the earth.
Genesis 6:13	And God said vnto Noah, An ende of all flesh is come before me: for the earth is filled with crueltie through them: and beholde, I wil destroy them with the earth.
Genesis 6:14	Make thee an Arke of pine trees: thou shalt make cabines in the Arke, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.
Genesis 6:15	And thus shalt thou make it: The length of the Arke shalbe three hundreth cubites, the breadth of it fiftie cubites, and the height of it thirtie cubites.
Genesis 6:16	A windowe shalt thou make in the Arke, and in a cubite shalt thou finish it aboue, and the doore of the Arke shalt thou set in the side thereof: thou shalt make it with the lowe, seconde and third roume.
Genesis 6:17	And I, beholde, I will bring a flood of waters vpon the earth to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life vnder the heauen: all that is in the earth shall perish.
Genesis 6:18	But with thee will I establish my couenant, and thou shalt goe into the Arke, thou, and thy sonnes, and thy wife, and thy sonnes wiues with thee.
Genesis 6:19	And of euery liuing thing, of all flesh two of euery sort shalt thou cause to come into the Arke, to keepe them aliue with thee: they shalbe male and female.
Genesis 6:20	Of the foules, after their kinde, and of the cattell after their kind, of euery creeping thing of the earth after his kinde, two of euery sort shall come vnto thee, that thou mayest keepe them aliue.
Genesis 6:21	And take thou with thee of all meate that is eaten: and thou shalt gather it to thee, that it may be meate for thee and for them.
Genesis 6:22	Noah therefore did according vnto all, that God commanded him: euen so did he.
Genesis 7:1	And the Lord said vnto Noah, Enter thou and all thine house into the Arke: for thee haue I seene righteous before me in this age.
Genesis 7:2	Of euery cleane beast thou shalt take to thee by seuens, the male and his female: but of vncleane beastes by couples, the male and his female.
Genesis 7:3	Of the foules also of the heauen by seuens, male and female, to keepe seede aliue vpon the whole earth.
Genesis 7:4	For seuen dayes hence I will cause it raine vpon the earth fourtie dayes and fourtie nightes, and all the substance that I haue made, will I destroy from off the earth.
Genesis 7:5	Noah therefore did according vnto all that the Lord commanded him.
Genesis 7:6	And Noah was sixe hundreth yeeres olde, when the flood of waters was vpon the earth.
Genesis 7:7	So Noah entred and his sonnes, and his wife, and his sonnes wiues with him into the Arke, because of the waters of the flood.
Genesis 7:8	Of the cleane beastes, and of the vncleane beastes, and of the foules, and of all that creepeth vpon the earth,
Genesis 7:9	There came two and two vnto Noah into the Arke, male and female, as God had commanded Noah.
Genesis 7:10	And so after seuen dayes the waters of the flood were vpon the earth.
Genesis 7:11	In the sixe hundreth yeere of Noahs life in the second moneth, the seuetenth day of the moneth, in the same day were all the fountaines of the great deepe broken vp, and the windowes of heauen were opened,
Genesis 7:12	And the raine was vpon the earth fourtie dayes and fourtie nightes.
Genesis 7:13	In the selfe same day entred Noah with Shem, and Ham and Iapheth, the sonnes of Noah, and Noahs wife, and the three wiues of his sonnes with them into the Arke.
Genesis 7:14	They and euery beast after his kinde, and all cattell after their kinde, and euery thing that creepeth and moueth vpon the earth after his kinde, and euery foule after his kinde, euen euery bird of euery fether.
Genesis 7:15	For they came to Noah into ye Arke, two and two, of all flesh wherein is ye breath of life.
Genesis 7:16	And they entring in, came male and female of all flesh, as God had commanded him: and the Lord shut him in.
Genesis 7:17	Then ye flood was fourtie dayes vpon the earth, and the waters were increased, and bare vp the Arke, which was lift vp aboue the earth.
Genesis 7:18	The waters also waxed strong, and were increased exceedingly vpon the earth, and the Arke went vpon the waters.
Genesis 7:19	The waters preuailed so exceedingly vpon the earth, that all the high mountaines, that are vnder the whole heauen, were couered.
Genesis 7:20	Fifteene cubites vpwarde did the waters preuaile, when the mountaines were couered.
Genesis 7:21	Then all flesh perished that moued vpon the earth, both foule and cattell and beast, and euery thing that creepeth and moueth vpon the earth, and euery man.
Genesis 7:22	Euery thing in whose nostrels the spirit of life did breathe, whatsoeuer they were in the drie land, they died.
Genesis 7:23	So he destroyed euery thing that was vpon the earth, from man to beast, to ye creeping thing, and to the foule of the heauen: they were euen destroyed from the earth. And Noah onely remained; and they that were with him in ye Arke.
Genesis 7:24	And the waters preuailed vpon the earth an hundreth and fiftie dayes.
Genesis 8:1	Now God remembred Noah and euery beast, and all the cattell that was with him in the Arke: therefore God made a winde to passe vpon the earth, and the waters ceased.
Genesis 8:2	The fountaines also of the deepe and the windowes of heauen were stopped and the raine from heauen was restrained,
Genesis 8:3	And the waters returned from aboue the earth, going and returning: and after the ende of the hundreth and fiftieth day the waters abated.
Genesis 8:4	And in the seuenth moneth, in the seuenteenth day of the moneth, the Arke rested vpon the mountaines of Ararat.
Genesis 8:5	And the waters were going and decreasing vntill the tenth moneth: in the tenth moneth, and in the first day of the moneth were the toppes of the mountaines seene.
Genesis 8:6	So after fourtie dayes, Noah opened the windowe of the Arke, which he had made,
Genesis 8:7	And sent forth a rauen, which went out going forth and returning, vntill the waters were dried vp vpon the earth.
Genesis 8:8	Againe he sent a doue from him, that he might see if the waters were diminished from off the earth.
Genesis 8:9	But the doue found no rest for the sole of her foote: therefore she returned vnto him into the Arke (for the waters were vpon the whole earth) and he put forth his hand, and receiued her, and tooke her to him into the Arke.
Genesis 8:10	And he abode yet other seuen dayes, and againe he sent forth the doue out of the Arke.
Genesis 8:11	And the doue came to him in ye euening, and loe, in her mouth was an oliue leafe that she had pluckt: whereby Noah knewe that the waters were abated from off the earth.
Genesis 8:12	Notwithstanding he wayted yet other seuen dayes, and sent forth the doue, which returned not againe vnto him any more.
Genesis 8:13	And in the sixe hundreth and one yeere, in the first day of the first moneth the waters were dryed vp from off the earth: and Noah remoued the couering of the Arke and looked, and beholde, the vpper part of the ground was drie.
Genesis 8:14	And in the second moneth, in the seuen and twentieth day of the moneth was the earth drie.
Genesis 8:15	Then God spake to Noah, saying,
Genesis 8:16	Goe forth of the Arke, thou and thy wife, and thy sonnes and thy sonnes wiues with thee.
Genesis 8:17	Bring forth with thee euery beast that is with thee, of all flesh, both foule and cattell, and euery thing that creepeth and moueth vpon the earth, that they may breede abundantly in ye earth, and bring forth fruite and increase vpon ye earth.
Genesis 8:18	So Noah came forth, and his sonnes, and his wife, and his sonnes wiues with him.
Genesis 8:19	Euery beast, euery creeping thing, and euery foule, all that moueth vpon the earth after their kindes went out of the Arke.
Genesis 8:20	Then Noah built an altar to the Lord and tooke of euery cleane beast, and of euery cleane foule, and offered burnt offerings vpon the altar.
Genesis 8:21	And the Lord smellled a sauour of rest, and the Lord said in his heart, I will hencefoorth curse the ground no more for mans cause: for the imagination of mans heart is euill, euen from his youth: neither will I smite any more all things liuing, as I haue done.
Genesis 8:22	Hereafter seede time and haruest, and colde and heate, and sommer and winter, and day and night shall not cease, so long as ye earth remaineth.
Genesis 9:1	And God blessed Noah and his sonnes, and said to them, Bring foorth fruite, and multiplie, and replenish the earth.
Genesis 9:2	Also the feare of you, and the dread of you shalbe vpon euery beast of the earth, and vpon euery foule of the heauen, vpon all that moueth on the earth, and vpon all the fishes of the sea: into your hand are they deliuered.
Genesis 9:3	Euery thing that moueth and liueth, shall be meate for you: as the greene herbe, haue I giuen you all things.
Genesis 9:4	But flesh with the life thereof, I meane, with the blood thereof, shall ye not eate.
Genesis 9:5	For surely I will require your blood, wherein your liues are: at the hand of euery beast will I require it: and at the hand of man, euen at the hand of a mans brother will I require the life of man.
Genesis 9:6	Who so sheadeth mans blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God hath he made man.
Genesis 9:7	But bring ye forth fruite and multiplie: grow plentifully in the earth, and increase therein.
Genesis 9:8	God spake also to Noah and to his sonnes with him, saying,
Genesis 9:9	Behold, I, euen I establish my couenant with you, and with your seede after you,
Genesis 9:10	And with euery liuing creature that is with you, with the foule, with the cattell, and with euery beast of the earth with you, from all that goe out of the Arke, vnto euery beast of the earth.
Genesis 9:11	And my couenant will I establish with you, that from henceforth all flesh shall not be rooted out by ye waters of the flood, neither shall there be a flood to destroy the earth any more.
Genesis 9:12	Then God saide, This is the token of the couenant which I make betweene me and you, and betweene euery liuing thing, that is with you vnto perpetuall generations.
Genesis 9:13	I haue set my bowe in the cloude, and it shalbe for a signe of the couenant betweene me and the earth.
Genesis 9:14	And when I shall couer the earth with a cloud, and the bowe shall be seene in the cloude,
Genesis 9:15	Then will I remember my couenant, which is betweene me and you, and betweene euery liuing thing in all flesh, and there shalbe no more waters of a flood to destroy all flesh.
Genesis 9:16	Therefore the bowe shalbe in the cloude, that I may see it, and remember the euerlasting couenant betweene God, and euery liuing thing in all flesh that is vpon the earth.
Genesis 9:17	God said yet to Noah, This is the signe of the couenant, which I haue established betweene me and all flesh that is vpon the earth.
Genesis 9:18	Nowe the sonnes of Noah going foorth of the Arke, were Shem and Ham and Iapheth. And Ham is the father of Canaan.
Genesis 9:19	These are the three sonnes of Noah, and of them was the whole earth ouerspred.
Genesis 9:20	Noah also began to be an husband man and planted a vineyard.
Genesis 9:21	And he drunke of ye wine and was drunken, and was vncouered in the middes of his tent.
Genesis 9:22	And when Ham the father of Canaan sawe the nakednesse of his father, he tolde his two brethren without.
Genesis 9:23	Then tooke Shem and Iapheth a garment, and put it vpon both their shoulders, and went backwarde, and couered the nakednesse of their father with their faces backwarde: so they sawe not their fathers nakednesse.
Genesis 9:24	Then Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his yonger sonne had done vnto him,
Genesis 9:25	And said, Cursed be Canaan: a seruant of seruants shall he be vnto his brethren.
Genesis 9:26	He said moreouer, blessed be the Lord God of Shem, and let Canaan be his seruant.
Genesis 9:27	God perswade Iapheth, that he may dwell in the tentes of Shem, and let Canaan be his seruant.
Genesis 9:28	And Noah liued after the flood three hundreth and fiftie yeeres.
Genesis 9:29	So all the dayes of Noah were nine hundreth and fiftie yeeres: and he died.
Genesis 10:1	Now these are the generations of the sonnes of Noah, Shem, Ham and Iapheth: vnto whom sonnes were borne after the flood.
Genesis 10:2	The sonnes of Iapheth were Gomer and Magog, and Madai, and Iauan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
Genesis 10:3	And the sonnes of Gomer, Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.
Genesis 10:4	Also the sonnes of Iauan, Elishah and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
Genesis 10:5	Of these were the yles of the Gentiles deuided in their landes, euery man after his tongue, and after their families in their nations.
Genesis 10:6	Moreouer, ye sonnes of Ham were Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan.
Genesis 10:7	And the sonnes of Cush, Seba and Hauilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtecha: also the sonnes of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan.
Genesis 10:8	And Cush begate Nimrod, who began to be mightie in the earth.
Genesis 10:9	He was a mightie hunter before the Lord. wherefore it is saide, As Nimrod the mightie hunter before the Lord.
Genesis 10:10	And the beginning of his kingdome was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
Genesis 10:11	Out of that land came Asshur, and builded Niniueh, and the citie Rehoboth, and Calah:
Genesis 10:12	Resen also betweene Niniueh and Calah: this is a great citie.
Genesis 10:13	And Mizraim begate Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim.
Genesis 10:14	Pathrusim also, and Casluhim (out of whom came the Philistims) and Caphtorims.
Genesis 10:15	Also Canaan begat Zidon his first borne, and Heth,
Genesis 10:16	And Iebusi, and Emori, and Girgashi,
Genesis 10:17	And Hiui, and Arki, and Sini,
Genesis 10:18	And Aruadi, and Zemari, and Hamathi: and afterwarde were the families of the Canaanites spred abroade.
Genesis 10:19	Then the border of the Canaanites was from Zidon, as thou commest to Gerar vntil Azzah, and as thou goest vnto Sodom, and Gomorah, and Admah, and Zeboijm, euen vnto Lasha.
Genesis 10:20	These are the sonnes of Ham according to their families, according to their tongues in their countries and in their nations.
Genesis 10:21	Vnto Shem also the father of all the sonnes of Eber, and elder brother of Iapheth were children borne.
Genesis 10:22	The sonnes of Shem were Elam and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram.
Genesis 10:23	And the sonnes of Aram, Vz and Hul, and Gether and Mash.
Genesis 10:24	Also Arpachshad begate Shelah, and Shelah begate Eber.
Genesis 10:25	Vnto Eber also were borne two sonnes: the name of the one was Peleg: for in his dayes was the earth diuided: and his brothers name was Ioktan.
Genesis 10:26	Then Ioktan begate Almodad and Sheleph, and Hazarmaueth, and Ierah,
Genesis 10:27	And Hadoram, and Vzal, and Dicklah,
Genesis 10:28	And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
Genesis 10:29	And Ophir, and Hauilah, and Iobab: all these were the sonnes of Ioktan.
Genesis 10:30	And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest vnto Sephar a mount of the East.
Genesis 10:31	These are the sonnes of Shem according to their families, according to their tongues, in their countreis and nations.
Genesis 10:32	These are the families of the sonnes of Noah, after their generations among their people: and out of these were the nations diuided in the earth after the flood.
Genesis 11:1	Then the whole earth was of one language and one speache.
Genesis 11:2	And as they went from the East, they found a plaine in the land of Shinar, and there they abode.
Genesis 11:3	And they said one to another, Come, let vs make bricke, and burne it in the fire. So they had bricke for stone, and slime had they in steade of morter.
Genesis 11:4	Also they said, Goe to, let vs builde vs a citie and a towre, whose top may reache vnto the heauen, that we may get vs a name, lest we be scattered vpon the whole earth.
Genesis 11:5	But the Lord came downe, to see the citie and towre, which the sonnes of men builded.
Genesis 11:6	And the Lord said, Beholde, the people is one, and they all haue one language, and this they begin to doe, neither can they now be stopped from whatsoeuer they haue imagined to do.
Genesis 11:7	Come on, let vs goe downe, and there confound their language, that euery one perceiue not anothers speache.
Genesis 11:8	So ye Lord scattered them from thence vpon all the earth, and they left off to build the citie.
Genesis 11:9	Therefore the name of it was called Babel, because the Lord did there confounde the language of all the earth: from thence then did the Lord scatter them vpon all the earth.
Genesis 11:10	These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundreth yeere olde, and begate Arpachshad two yeere after the flood.
Genesis 11:11	And Shem liued, after he begate Arpachshad, fiue hundreth yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 11:12	Also Arpachshad liued fiue and thirtie yeeres, and begate Shelah.
Genesis 11:13	And Arpachshad liued, after he begate Shelah, foure hundreth and three yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 11:14	And Shelah liued thirtie yeeres, and begat Eber.
Genesis 11:15	So Shelah liued, after he begat Eber, foure hundreth and three yeeres, and begat sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 11:16	Likewise Eber liued foure and thirtie yeres, and begate Peleg.
Genesis 11:17	So Eber liued, after he begate Peleg, foure hundreth and thirtie yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters
Genesis 11:18	And Peleg liued thirtie yeeres, and begate Reu.
Genesis 11:19	And Peleg liued, after he begate Reu, two hundreth and nine yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 11:20	Also Reu liued two and thirtie yeeres, and begate Serug.
Genesis 11:21	So Reu liued, after he begate Serug, two hundreth and seuen yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 11:22	Moreouer Serug liued thirtie yeeres, and begate Nahor.
Genesis 11:23	And Serug liued, after he begate Nahor, two hundreth yeeres, and begate sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 11:24	And Nahor liued nine and twentie yeeres, and begate Terah.
Genesis 11:25	So Nahor liued, after he begate Terah, an hundreth and nineteene yeeres, and begat sonnes and daughters.
Genesis 11:26	So Terah liued seuentie yeeres, and begate Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
Genesis 11:27	Nowe these are the generations of Terah: Terah begate Abram, Nahor, and Haran: and Haran begate Lot.
Genesis 11:28	Then Haran died before Terah his father in the land of his natiuitie, in Vr of the Caldees.
Genesis 11:29	So Abram and Nahor tooke them wiues. The name of Abrams wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahors wife Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.
Genesis 11:30	But Sarai was barren, and had no childe.
Genesis 11:31	Then Terah tooke Abram his sonne, and Lot the sonne of Haran, his sonnes sonne, and Sarai his daughter in lawe, his sonne Abrams wife: and they departed together from Vr of the Caldees, to goe into the land of Canaan, and they came to Haran, and dwelt there.
Genesis 11:32	So the dayes of Terah were two hundreth and fiue yeeres, and Terah died in Haran.
Genesis 12:1	For the Lord had said vnto Abram, Get thee out of thy countrey, and from thy kindred, and from thy fathers house vnto the land that I will shewe thee.
Genesis 12:2	And I will make of thee a great nation, and will blesse thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing.
Genesis 12:3	I will also blesse them that blesse thee, and curse them that curse thee, and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.
Genesis 12:4	So Abram departed, euen as ye Lord spake vnto him, and Lot went with him. (And Abram was seuentie and fiue yeere olde, when he departed out of Haran)
Genesis 12:5	Then Abram tooke Sarai his wife, and Lot his brothers sonne, and all their substance that they possessed, and the soules that they had gotten in Haran, and they departed, to goe to the land of Canaan: and to the land of Canaan they came.
Genesis 12:6	So Abram passed through the land vnto the place of Shechem, and vnto the plaine of Moreh (and the Canaanite was then in ye land)
Genesis 12:7	And the Lord appeared vnto Abram, and said, Vnto thy seede will I giue this land. And there builded he an altar vnto the Lord, which appeared vnto him.
Genesis 12:8	Afterward remouing thence vnto a moutaine Eastward from Beth-el, he pitched his tent hauing Beth-el on the Westside, and Haai on the East: and there he built an altar vnto the Lord, and called on the Name of the Lord.
Genesis 12:9	Againe Abram went forth going and iourneying toward the South.
Genesis 12:10	Then there came a famine in the land: therefore Abram went downe into Egypt to soiourne there: for there was a great famine in the lande.
Genesis 12:11	And when he drewe neere to enter into Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, Beholde nowe, I know that thou art a faire woman to looke vpon:
Genesis 12:12	Therefore it will come to passe, that when the Egyptians see thee, they will say, She is his wife: so will they kill me, but they will keepe thee aliue.
Genesis 12:13	Say, I pray thee, that thou art my sister, that I may fare well for thy sake, and that my life may be preserued by thee.
Genesis 12:14	Nowe when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians behelde the woman: for she was very faire.
Genesis 12:15	And the Princes of Pharaoh sawe her, and commended her vnto Pharaoh: so the woman was taken into Pharaohs house:
Genesis 12:16	Who intreated Abram well for her sake, and he had sheepe, and beeues, and hee asses, and men seruants and maide seruants, and shee asses, and camelles.
Genesis 12:17	But the Lord plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues, because of Sarai Abrams wife.
Genesis 12:18	Then Pharaoh called Abram, and saide, Why hast thou done this vnto me? Wherefore diddest thou not tell me, that she was thy wife?
Genesis 12:19	Why saidest thou, She is my sister, that I should take her to be my wife? Nowe therefore beholde thy wife, take her and goe thy way.
Genesis 12:20	And Pharaoh gaue men commandement concerning him: and they conueyed him forth, and his wife, and all that he had.
Genesis 13:1	Then Abram went vp from Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him toward the South.
Genesis 13:2	And Abram was very rich in cattell, in siluer and in golde.
Genesis 13:3	And he went on his iourney from ye South toward Beth-el, to the place where his tent had bene at ye beginning, betweene Beth-el and Haai,
Genesis 13:4	Vnto the place of the altar, which he had made there at the first: and there Abram called on the Name of the Lord.
Genesis 13:5	And Lot also, who went with Abram, had sheepe, and cattell and tentes,
Genesis 13:6	So that the land coulde not beare them, that they might dwell together: for their substance was great, so that they coulde not dwell together.
Genesis 13:7	Also there was debate betweene ye heardmen of Abrams cattell, and the heardmen of Lots cattell. (and the Canaanites and the Perizzites dwelled at that time in the land.)
Genesis 13:8	Then saide Abram vnto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, betweene thee and me, neither betweene mine heardmen and thine heardmen: for we be brethren.
Genesis 13:9	Is not the whole land before thee? depart I pray thee from me: if thou wilt take the left hand, then I will goe to the right: or if thou goe to the right hand, then I will take the left.
Genesis 13:10	So when Lot lifted vp his eyes, he saw that all the plaine of Iorden was watered euery where: (for before the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorah, it was as the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, as thou goest vnto Zoar)
Genesis 13:11	Then Lot chose vnto him all the plaine of Iorden, and tooke his iourney from the East: and they departed the one from the other.
Genesis 13:12	Abram dwelled in the lande of Canaan, and Lot abode in the cities of the plaine, and pitched his tent euen to Sodom.
Genesis 13:13	Now the men of Sodom were wicked and exceeding sinners against the Lord.
Genesis 13:14	Then the Lord saide vnto Abram, (after that Lot was departed from him) Lift vp thine eyes nowe, and looke from the place where thou art, Northward, and Southward, and Eastwarde, and Westward:
Genesis 13:15	For all the land, which thou seest, will I giue vnto thee and to thy seede for euer,
Genesis 13:16	And I will make thy seede, as the dust of the earth: so that if a man can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seede be numbred.
Genesis 13:17	Arise, walke through the land, in ye length thereof, and breadth thereof: for I will giue it vnto thee.
Genesis 13:18	Then Abram remoued his tent, and came and dwelled in the plaine of Mamre, which is in Hebron, and builded there an altar vnto ye Lord.
Genesis 14:1	And in the dayes of Amraphel King of Shinar, Arioch King of Ellasar, Chedor-laomer King of Elam, and Tidal king of the nations:
Genesis 14:2	These men made warre with Bera King of Sodom, and with Birsha King of Gomorah, Shinab King of Admah, and Shemeber King of Zeboiim, and the King of Bela, which is Zoar.
Genesis 14:3	All these ioyned together in the vale of Siddim, which is the salt Sea.
Genesis 14:4	Twelue yeere were they subiect to Chedor-laomer, but in the thirteenth yeere they rebelled.
Genesis 14:5	And in the fourteenth yeere came Chedor-laomer, and the Kings that were with him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the Zuzims in Ham, and the Emims in Shaueh Kiriathaim,
Genesis 14:6	And the Horites in their mount Seir, vnto the plaine of Paran, which is by the wildernesse.
Genesis 14:7	And they returned and came to En-mishpat, which is Kadesh, and smote all the countrey of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites that dwelled in Hazezon-tamar.
Genesis 14:8	Then went out the King of Sodom, and the King of Gomorah, and the King of Admah, and the King of Zeboiim, and the King of Bela, which is Zoar: and they ioyned battell with them in the vale of Siddim:
Genesis 14:9	To wit, with Chedor-laomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar: foure Kings against fiue.
Genesis 14:10	Now the vale of Siddim was full of slime pits, and the Kings of Sodom and Gomorah fled and fell there: and ye residue fled to the mountaine.
Genesis 14:11	Then they tooke all the substance of Sodom and Gomorah, and al their vitailes and went their way.
Genesis 14:12	They tooke Lot also Abrams brothers sonne and his substance (for he dwelt at Sodom) and departed.
Genesis 14:13	Then came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Ebrew, which dwelt in the plaine of Mamre ye Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner, which were confederat with Abram.
Genesis 14:14	When Abram heard that his brother was taken, he brought forth of them that were borne and brought vp in his house, three hundreth and eighteene, and pursued them vnto Dan.
Genesis 14:15	Then he, and his seruants deuided them selues against them by night, and smote them and pursued them vnto Hobah, which is on the left side of Damascus,
Genesis 14:16	And he recouered all the substance, and also brought againe his brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also and the people.
Genesis 14:17	After that he returned from the slaughter of Chedor-laomer, and of the Kings that were with him, came the King of Sodom foorth to meete him in the valley of Shaueh, which is the Kings dale.
Genesis 14:18	And Melchi-zedek King of Shalem brought foorth bread and wine: and he was a Priest of the most high God.
Genesis 14:19	Therefore he blessed him, saying, Blessed art thou, Abram, of God most high possessour of heauen and earth,
Genesis 14:20	And blessed be the most high God, which hath deliuered thine enemies into thine hand. And Abram gaue him tythe of all.
Genesis 14:21	Then the King of Sodom saide to Abram, Giue me the persons, and take the goodes to thy selfe.
Genesis 14:22	And Abram said to the King of Sodom, I haue lift vp mine hand vnto the Lord the most hie God possessor of heauen and earth,
Genesis 14:23	That I will not take of all that is thine, so much as a threde or shoolatchet, lest thou shouldest say, I haue made Abram riche,
Genesis 14:24	Saue onely that, which the yong men haue eaten, and the partes of the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre: let them take their partes.
Genesis 15:1	After these things, the worde of the Lord came vnto Abram in a vision, saying, Feare not, Abram, I am thy buckler, and thine exceeding great reward.
Genesis 15:2	And Abram said, O Lord God, what wilt thou giue me, seeing I goe childlesse, and the steward of mine house is this Eliezer of Damascus?
Genesis 15:3	Againe Abram saide, Beholde, to me thou hast giuen no seede: wherefore loe, a seruant of mine house shalbe mine heire.
Genesis 15:4	Then beholde, the worde of the Lord came vnto him, saying, This man shall not be thine heire, but one that shall come out of thine owne bowels, he shalbe thine heire.
Genesis 15:5	Moreouer he brought him forth and said, Looke vp nowe vnto heauen, and tell ye starres, if thou be able to number them: and he said vnto him, So shall thy seede be.
Genesis 15:6	And Abram beleeued the Lord, and he counted that to him for righteousnesse.
Genesis 15:7	Againe he saide vnto him, I am the Lord, that brought thee out of Vr of the Caldees, to giue thee this land to inherite it.
Genesis 15:8	And he said, O Lord God, whereby shall I knowe that I shall inherite it?
Genesis 15:9	Then he said vnto him, Take me an heifer of three yeeres olde, and a shee goate of three yeeres olde, and a ramme of three yeeres olde, a turtle doue also and a pigeon.
Genesis 15:10	So he tooke all these vnto him, and deuided them into the middes, and laid euery piece one against an other: but the birdes deuided he not.
Genesis 15:11	Then foules fell on the carkases, and Abram droue them away.
Genesis 15:12	And when the sunne went downe, there fell an heauie sleepe vpon Abram: and loe, a very fearefull darkenes fell vpon him.
Genesis 15:13	Then he saide to Abram, Knowe for a suretie, that thy seede shalbe a stranger in a land, that is not theirs, foure hundreth yeeres, and shall serue them: and they shall intreate them euill.
Genesis 15:14	Notwithstanding the nation, whom they shall serue, will I iudge: and afterward shall they come out with great substance.
Genesis 15:15	But thou shalt goe vnto thy fathers in peace, and shalt be buried in a good age.
Genesis 15:16	And in the fourth generation they shall come hither againe: for the wickednes of the Amorites is not yet full.
Genesis 15:17	Also when the sunne went downe, there was a darkenes: and behold, a smoking fornace, and a firebrand, which went betweene those pieces.
Genesis 15:18	In that same day the Lord made a couenant with Abram, saying, Vnto thy seede haue I giuen this lande, from the riuer of Egypt vnto the great riuer, the riuer Euphrates.
Genesis 15:19	The Kenites, and the Kenizites, and the Kadmonites,
Genesis 15:20	And the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Rephaims,
Genesis 15:21	The Amorites also, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Iebusites.
Genesis 16:1	Nowe Sarai Abrams wife bare him no children, and she had a maide an Egyptian, Hagar by name.
Genesis 16:2	And Sarai said vnto Abram, Beholde now, the Lord hath restrained me from childe bearing. I pray thee goe in vnto my maide: it may be that I shall receiue a childe by her. And Abram obeyed the voyce of Sarai.
Genesis 16:3	Then Sarai Abrams wife tooke Hagar her maide the Egyptian, after Abram had dwelled ten yeere in the land of Canaan, and gaue her to her husband Abram for his wife.
Genesis 16:4	And he went in vnto Hagar, and she conceiued. and when she sawe that she had conceiued, her dame was despised in her eyes.
Genesis 16:5	Then Sarai saide to Abram, Thou doest me wrong. I haue giuen my maide into thy bosome, and she seeth that she hath conceiued, and I am despised in her eyes: the Lord iudge betweene me and thee.
Genesis 16:6	Then Abram saide to Sarai, Beholde, thy maide is in thine hand: doe with her as it pleaseth thee. Then Sarai dealt roughly with her: wherefore she fled from her.
Genesis 16:7	But the Angel of the Lord founde her beside a fountaine of water in the wildernesse by the fountaine in the way to Shur,
Genesis 16:8	And he saide, Hagar Sarais maide, whence commest thou? and whither wilt thou goe? And she said, I flie from my dame Sarai.
Genesis 16:9	Then the Angel of the Lord saide to her, Returne to thy dame, and humble thy selfe vnder her hands.
Genesis 16:10	Againe the Angel of the Lord saide vnto her, I will so greatly increase thy seede, that it shall not be numbred for multitude.
Genesis 16:11	Also the Angel of the Lord said vnto her, See, thou art with childe, and shalt beare a sonne, and shalt call his name Ishmael: for the Lord hath heard thy tribulation.
Genesis 16:12	And he shalbe a wilde man: his hande shall be against euery man, and euery mans hand against him. and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren.
Genesis 16:13	Then she called the name of the Lord, that spake vnto her, Thou God lookest on me: for she said, Haue I not also here looked after him that seeth me?
Genesis 16:14	Wherefore the well was called, Beerlahai-roi. lo, it is betweene Kadesh and Bered.
Genesis 16:15	And Hagar bare Abram a sonne, and Abram called his sonnes name, which Hagar bare, Ishmael.
Genesis 16:16	And Abram was foure score and sixe yeere olde, when Hagar bare him Ishmael.
Genesis 17:1	When Abram was ninetie yeere olde and nine, the Lord appeared to Abram, and said vnto him, I am God all sufficient. walke before me, and be thou vpright,
Genesis 17:2	And I will make my couenant betweene me and thee, and I will multiplie thee exceedingly.
Genesis 17:3	Then Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying,
Genesis 17:4	Beholde, I make my couenant with thee, and thou shalt be a father of many nations,
Genesis 17:5	Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shalbe Abraham: for a father of many nations haue I made thee.
Genesis 17:6	Also I will make thee exceeding fruitfull, and will make nations of thee: yea, Kings shall proceede of thee.
Genesis 17:7	Moreouer I wil establish my couenant betweene me and thee, and thy seede after thee in their generations, for an euerlasting couenant, to be God vnto thee and to thy seede after thee.
Genesis 17:8	And I will giue thee and thy seede after thee the land, wherein thou art a stranger, euen all the land of Canaan, for an euerlasting possession, and I will be their God.
Genesis 17:9	Againe God said vnto Abraham, Thou also shalt keepe my couenant, thou, and thy seede after thee in their generations.
Genesis 17:10	This is my couenant which ye shall keepe betweene me and you, and thy seede after thee, Let euery man childe among you be circumcised:
Genesis 17:11	That is, ye shall circumcise the foreskin of your flesh, and it shalbe a signe of the couenant betweene me and you.
Genesis 17:12	And euery man childe of eight dayes olde among you, shalbe circumcised in your generations, aswell he that is borne in thine house, as he that is bought with money of any stranger, which is not of thy seede.
Genesis 17:13	He that is borne in thine house, and he that is bought with thy money, must needes be circumcised: so my couenant shall be in your flesh for an euerlasting couenant.
Genesis 17:14	But the vncircumcised man childe, in whose flesh the foreskin is not circumcised, euen that person shall be cut off from his people, because he hath broken my couenant.
Genesis 17:15	Afterward God said vnto Abraham, Sarai thy wife shalt thou not call Sarai, but Sarah shalbe her name.
Genesis 17:16	And I will blesse her, and will also giue thee a sonne of her, yea, I will blesse her, and she shall be the mother of nations: Kings also of people shall come of her.
Genesis 17:17	Then Abraham fell vpon his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a childe be borne vnto him, that is an hundreth yeere olde? and shall Sarah that is ninetie yeere olde beare?
Genesis 17:18	And Abraham saide vnto God, Oh, that Ishmael might liue in thy sight.
Genesis 17:19	Then God saide, Sarah thy wife shall beare thee a sonne in deede, and thou shalt call his name Izhak: and I will establish my couenant with him for an euerlasting couenant, and with his seede after him.
Genesis 17:20	And as concerning Ishmael, I haue heard thee: loe, I haue blessed him, and will make him fruitfull, and will multiplie him exceedingly: twelue princes shall he beget, and I will make a great nation of him.
Genesis 17:21	But my couenant will I establish with Izhak, which Sarah shall beare vnto thee, the next yeere at this season.
Genesis 17:22	And he left off talking with him, and God went vp from Abraham.
Genesis 17:23	Then Abraham tooke Ishmael his sonne and all that were borne in his house, and all that was bought with his money, that is, euery man childe among the men of Abrahams house, and he circumcised the foreskinne of their flesh in that selfe same day, as God had comaunded him.
Genesis 17:24	Abraham also himselfe was ninetie yeere olde and nine, when the foreskinne of his flesh was circumcised.
Genesis 17:25	And Ishmael his sonne was thirteene yeere olde, when the foreskinne of his flesh was circumcised.
Genesis 17:26	The selfe same day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his sonne:
Genesis 17:27	And all the men of his house, both borne in his house, and bought with money of the stranger, were circumcised with him.
Genesis 18:1	Againe the Lord appeared vnto him in the plaine of Mamre, as he sate in his tent doore about the heate of the day.
Genesis 18:2	And he lift vp his eyes, and looked: and lo, three men stoode by him, and when he sawe them, he ranne to meete them from the tent doore, and bowed himselfe to the grounde.
Genesis 18:3	And he said, Lord, if I haue now founde fauour in thy sight, goe not, I pray thee, from thy seruant.
Genesis 18:4	Let a litle water, I pray you, be brought, and wash your feete, and rest your selues vnder the tree.
Genesis 18:5	And I will bring a morsell of bread, that you may comfort your hearts, afterward ye shall go your wayes: for therefore are ye come to your seruant. And they said, Do euen as thou hast said.
Genesis 18:6	Then Abraham made haste into the tent vnto Sarah, and saide, Make ready at once three measures of fine meale: kneade it, and make cakes vpon the hearth.
Genesis 18:7	And Abraham ranne to the beastes, and tooke a tender and good calfe, and gaue it to the seruant, who hasted to make it ready.
Genesis 18:8	And he tooke butter and milke, and the calfe, which he had prepared, and set before them, and stoode himselfe by them vnder the tree, and they did eate.
Genesis 18:9	Then they saide to him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he answered, Beholde, she is in the tent.
Genesis 18:10	And he saide, I will certainely come againe vnto thee according to ye time of life: and loe, Sarah thy wife shall haue a sonne. and Sarah heard in the tent doore, which was behinde him.
Genesis 18:11	(Nowe Abraham and Sarah were old and striken in age, and it ceased to be with Sarah after the maner of women)
Genesis 18:12	Therefore Sarah laughed within her selfe, saying, After I am waxed olde, and my lord also, shall I haue lust?
Genesis 18:13	And ye Lord saide vnto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah thus laugh, saying, Shall I certainely beare a childe, which am olde?
Genesis 18:14	(Shall any thing be hard to the Lord? at the time appointed will I returne vnto thee, euen according to the time of life, and Sarah shall haue a sonne.)
Genesis 18:15	But Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not: for she was afraide. And he said, It is not so: for thou laughedst.
Genesis 18:16	Afterwarde the men did rise vp from thence and looked toward Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.
Genesis 18:17	And the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I doe,
Genesis 18:18	Seeing that Abraham shalbe in deede a great and a mightie nation, and all the nations of the earth shalbe blessed in him?
Genesis 18:19	For I knowe him that he will commande his sonnes and his houshold after him, that they keepe the way of the Lord, to doe righteousnesse and iudgement, that the Lord may bring vpon Abraham that he hath spoken vnto him.
Genesis 18:20	Then the Lord saide, Because the crie of Sodom and Gomorah is great, and because their sinne is exceeding grieuous,
Genesis 18:21	I will goe downe nowe, and see whether they haue done altogether according to that crie which is come vnto me: and if not, that I may knowe.
Genesis 18:22	And the men turned thence and went toward Sodom: but Abraham stoode yet before the Lord.
Genesis 18:23	Then Abraham drewe neere, and said, Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked?
Genesis 18:24	If there be fiftie righteous within the citie, wilt thou destroy and not spare the place for the fiftie righteous that are therein?
Genesis 18:25	Be it farre from thee from doing this thing, to slay the righteous with the wicked: and that the righteous should be euen as the wicked, be it farre from thee. shall not the Iudge of all the worlde doe right?
Genesis 18:26	And the Lord answered, If I shall finde in Sodom fiftie righteous within the citie, then will I spare all the place for their sakes.
Genesis 18:27	Then Abraham answered and said, Behold nowe, I haue begun to speake vnto my Lord, and I am but dust and ashes.
Genesis 18:28	If there shall lacke fiue of fiftie righteous, wilt thou destroy all the citie for fiue? And he saide, If I finde there fiue and fourtie, I will not destroy it.
Genesis 18:29	And he yet spake to him againe, and saide, What if there shalbe found fourtie there? Then he answered, I will not doe it for fourties sake.
Genesis 18:30	Againe he said, Let not my Lord nowe be angry, that I speake, What if thirtie be founde there? Then he saide, I will not doe it, if I finde thirtie there.
Genesis 18:31	Moreouer he said, Behold, now I haue begonne to speake vnto my Lord, What if twentie be founde there? And he answered, I will not destroy it for twenties sake.
Genesis 18:32	Then he saide, Let not my Lord be nowe angrie, and I will speake but this once, What if tenne be found there? And he answered, I will not destroy it for tennes sake.
Genesis 18:33	And the Lord went his way when he had left communing with Abraham, and Abraham returned vnto his place.
Genesis 19:1	And in the euening there came two Angels to Sodom: and Lot sate at the gate of Sodom, and Lot sawe them, and rose vp to meete them, and he bowed himselfe with his face to the ground.
Genesis 19:2	And he saide, See my Lords, I pray you turne in nowe into your seruants house, and tarie all night, and wash your feete, and ye shall rise vp early and goe your wayes. Who saide, Nay, but we will abide in the streete all night.
Genesis 19:3	Then he preassed vpon them earnestly, and they turned in to him, and came to his house, and he made them a feast, and did bake vnleauened bread, and they did eate.
Genesis 19:4	But before they went to bed, the men of the citie, euen the men of Sodom compassed the house rounde about from the yong euen to the olde, all the people from all quarters.
Genesis 19:5	Who crying vnto Lot said to him, Where are the men, which came to thee this night? bring them out vnto vs that we may knowe them.
Genesis 19:6	Then Lot went out at the doore vnto them, and shut the doore after him,
Genesis 19:7	And said, I pray you, my brethren, do not so wickedly.
Genesis 19:8	Beholde nowe, I haue two daughters, which haue not knowen man: them will I bring out now vnto you, and doe to them as seemeth you good: onely vnto these men doe nothing: for therefore are they come vnder the shadowe of my roofe.
Genesis 19:9	Then they said, Away hence, and they said, He is come alone as a stranger, and shall he iudge and rule? we will nowe deale worse with thee then with them. So they preassed sore vpon Lot himselfe, and came to breake the doore.
Genesis 19:10	But the men put forth their hand and pulled Lot into the house to them and shut to ye doore.
Genesis 19:11	Then they smote the men that were at the doore of the house with blindnes both small and great, so that they were wearie in seeking the doore.
Genesis 19:12	Then the men said vnto Lot, Whom hast thou yet here? either sonne in lawe, or thy sonnes, or thy daughters, or whatsoeuer thou hast in the citie, bring it out of this place.
Genesis 19:13	For we will destroy this place, because the crye of them is great before the Lord, and the Lord hath sent vs to destroy it.
Genesis 19:14	Then Lot went out and spake vnto his sonnes in lawe, which maried his daughters, and said, Arise, get you out of this place: for the Lord will destroy the citie: but he seemed to his sonnes in lawe as though he had mocked.
Genesis 19:15	And when the morning arose, the Angels hasted Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife and thy two daughters which are here, lest thou be destroyed in the punishment of the citie.
Genesis 19:16	And as he prolonged the time, the men caught both him and his wife, and his two daughters by the hands (the Lord being mercifull vnto him) and they brought him foorth, and set him without the citie.
Genesis 19:17	And when they had brought them out, the Angel said, Escape for thy life: looke not behinde thee, neither tarie thou in all the plaine: escape into ye mountaine, least thou be destroyed.
Genesis 19:18	And Lot saide vnto them, Not so, I pray thee, my Lord.
Genesis 19:19	Behold now, thy seruant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy mercie, which thou hast shewed vnto me in sauing my life: and I cannot escape in the mountaine, least some euill take me, and I die.
Genesis 19:20	See nowe this citie hereby to flee vnto, which is a litle one: Oh let me escape thither: is it not a litle one, and my soule shall liue?
Genesis 19:21	Then he said vnto him, Beholde, I haue receiued thy request also concerning this thing, that I will not ouerthrow this citie, for the which thou hast spoken.
Genesis 19:22	Haste thee, saue thee there: for I can doe nothing till thou be come thither. Therefore the name of the citie was called Zoar.
Genesis 19:23	The sunne did rise vpon the earth, when Lot entred into Zoar.
Genesis 19:24	Then the Lord rained vpon Sodom and vpon Gomorah brimstone, and fire from the Lord out of heauen,
Genesis 19:25	And ouerthrewe those cities and all the plaine, and all the inhabitants of the cities; and that that grewe vpon the earth.
Genesis 19:26	Now his wife behind him looked backe, and she became a pillar of salt.
Genesis 19:27	And Abraham rising vp earely in ye morning went to the place, where he had stand before the Lord,
Genesis 19:28	And looking towarde Sodom and Gomorah and toward all the land of the plaine, behold, he sawe the smoke of the lande mounting vp as the smoke of a fornace.
Genesis 19:29	But yet when God destroyed the cities of the plaine, God thought vpon Abraham, and sent Lot out from the middes of the destruction, when he ouerthrewe the cities, wherein Lot dwelled.
Genesis 19:30	Then Lot went vp from Zoar, and dwelt in the mountaine with his two daughters: for he feared to tarie in Zoar, but dwelt in a caue, he, and his two daughters.
Genesis 19:31	And the elder saide vnto the yonger, Our father is old, and there is not a man in the earth, to come in vnto vs after the maner of all ye earth.
Genesis 19:32	Come, wee will make our father drinke wine, and lie with him, that we may preserue seede of our father.
Genesis 19:33	So they made their father drinke wine that night, and the elder went and lay with her father: but he perceiued not, neither whe she lay downe, neither when she rose vp.
Genesis 19:34	And on the morowe the elder saide to the yonger, Behold, yester night lay I with my father: let vs make him drinke wine this night also, and goe thou and lie with him, that we may preserue seede of our father.
Genesis 19:35	So they made their father drinke wine that night also, and the yonger arose, and lay with him, but he perceiued not, when she lay downe, neither when she rose vp.
Genesis 19:36	Thus were both the daughters of Lot with childe by their father.
Genesis 19:37	And the elder bare a sonne, and she called his name Moab: the same is the father of the Moabites vnto this day.
Genesis 19:38	And the yonger bare a sonne also, and she called his name Ben-ammi: the same is the father of the Ammonites vnto this day.
Genesis 20:1	Afterward Abraham departed thence toward the South countrey and dwelled betweene Cadesh and Shur, and soiourned in Gerar.
Genesis 20:2	And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister. Then Abimelech King of Gerar sent and tooke Sarah.
Genesis 20:3	But God came to Abimelech in a dreame by night, and said to him, Beholde, thou art but dead, because of the woman, which thou hast taken: for she is a mans wife.
Genesis 20:4	(Notwithstanding Abimelech had not yet come neere her) And he said, Lord, wilt thou slay euen the righteous nation?
Genesis 20:5	Said not he vnto me, She is my sister? yea, and she her selfe said, He is my brother: with an vpright minde, and innocent handes haue I done this.
Genesis 20:6	And God saide vnto him by a dreame, I knowe that thou diddest this euen with an vpright minde, and I kept thee also that thou shouldest not sinne against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touche her.
Genesis 20:7	Now then deliuer the man his wife againe: for he is a Prophet, and he shall pray for thee that thou mayest liue: but if thou deliuer her not againe, be sure that thou shalt die the death, thou, and all that thou hast.
Genesis 20:8	Then Abimelech rising vp early in ye morning, called all his seruants, and tolde all these things vnto them, and the men were sore afraid.
Genesis 20:9	Afterward Abimelech called Abraham, and said vnto him, What hast thou done vnto vs? and what haue I offeded thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdome this great sinne? thou hast done things vnto me that ought not to be done.
Genesis 20:10	So Abimelech said vnto Abraham, What sawest thou that thou hast done this thing?
Genesis 20:11	Then Abraham answered, Because I thought thus, Surely the feare of God is not in this place, and they will slay me for my wiues sake.
Genesis 20:12	Yet in very deede she is my sister: for she is the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother, and she is my wife.
Genesis 20:13	Nowe when God caused me to wander out of my fathers house, I said then to her, This is thy kindnes that thou shalt shewe vnto me in all places where we come, Say thou of me, He is my brother.
Genesis 20:14	Then tooke Abimelech sheepe and beeues, and men seruants, and women seruants, and gaue them vnto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife.
Genesis 20:15	And Abimelech saide, Beholde, my land is before thee: dwell where it pleaseth thee.
Genesis 20:16	Likewise to Sarah he said, Beholde, I haue giuen thy brother a thousand pieces of siluer: behold, he is the vaile of thine eyes to all that are with thee, and to all others: and she was thus reproued.
Genesis 20:17	Then Abraham prayed vnto God, and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his women seruants: and they bare children.
Genesis 20:18	For the Lord had shut vp euery wombe of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah Abrahams wife.
Genesis 21:1	Nowe the Lord visited Sarah, as he had saide, and did vnto her according as he had promised.
Genesis 21:2	For Sarah conceiued, and bare Abraham a sonne in his olde age, at the same season that God tolde him.
Genesis 21:3	And Abraham called his sonnes name that was borne vnto him, which Sarah bare him, Izhak.
Genesis 21:4	Then Abraham circumcised Izhak his sonne, when he was eight dayes olde, as God had commanded him.
Genesis 21:5	So Abraham was an hundreth yeere olde, when his sonne Izhak was borne vnto him.
Genesis 21:6	Then Sarah said, God hath made me to reioyce: all that heare will reioyce with me.
Genesis 21:7	Againe she said, Who would haue saide to Abraham, that Sarah shoulde haue giuen children sucke? for I haue borne him a sonne in his olde age.
Genesis 21:8	Then the childe grewe and was weaned: and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Izhak was weaned.
Genesis 21:9	And Sarah sawe the sonne of Hagar the Egyptian (which she had borne vnto Abraham) mocking.
Genesis 21:10	Wherefore she saide vnto Abraham, Cast out this bond woman and her sonne: for ye sonne of this bonde woman shall not be heire with my sonne Izhak.
Genesis 21:11	And this thing was very grieuous in Abrahams sight, because of his sonne.
Genesis 21:12	But God said vnto Abraham, Let it not be grieuous in thy sight for the childe, and for thy bonde woman: in all that Sarah shall say vnto thee, heare her voyce: for in Izhak shall thy seede be called.
Genesis 21:13	As for the sonne of the bond woman, I will make him a nation also, because he is thy seede.
Genesis 21:14	So Abraham arose vp early in ye morning, and tooke bread, and a bottell of water, and gaue it vnto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, and the childe also, and sent her away: who departing wandred in the wildernesse of Beer-sheba.
Genesis 21:15	And when the water of the bottell was spent, she cast the childe vnder a certaine tree.
Genesis 21:16	Then she went and sate her ouer against him a farre off about a bowe shoote: for she said, I will not see the death of the child. and she sate downe ouer against him, and lift vp her voyce and wept.
Genesis 21:17	Then God heard the voyce of ye childe, and the Angel of God called to Hagar from heauen, and said vnto her, What aileth thee, Hagar? feare not, for God hath heard the voyce of the childe where he is.
Genesis 21:18	Arise, take vp the childe, and holde him in thine hand: for I will make of him a great people.
Genesis 21:19	And God opened her eyes, and she sawe a well of water. so she went and filled the bottell with water, and gaue the boy drinke.
Genesis 21:20	So God was with the childe, and he grewe and dwelt in the wildernesse, and was an archer.
Genesis 21:21	And he dwelt in the wildernesse of Paran, and his mother tooke him a wife out of the land of Egypt.
Genesis 21:22	And at that same time Abimelech and Phichol his chief captaine spake vnto Abraham, saying, God is with thee in all that thou doest.
Genesis 21:23	Nowe therefore sweare vnto me here by God, that thou wilt not hurt me, nor my children, nor my childrens children: thou shalt deale with me, and with the countrey, where thou hast bene a stranger, according vnto the kindnesse that I haue shewed thee.
Genesis 21:24	Then Abraham said, I will sweare.
Genesis 21:25	And Abraham rebuked Abimelech for a well of water, which Abimelechs seruants had violently taken away.
Genesis 21:26	And Abimelech saide, I knowe not who hath done this thing: also thou toldest me not, neither heard I of it but this day.
Genesis 21:27	Then Abraham tooke sheepe and beeues, and gaue them vnto Abimelech: and they two made a couenant.
Genesis 21:28	And Abraham set seuen lambes of the flocke by themselues.
Genesis 21:29	Then Abimelech said vnto Abraham, What meane these seuen lambes, which thou hast set by themselues?
Genesis 21:30	And he answered, Because thou shalt receiue of mine hand these seuen lambes, that it may be a witnes vnto me, that I haue digged this well.
Genesis 21:31	Wherefore the place is called Beer-sheba, because there they both sware.
Genesis 21:32	Thus made they a couenant at Beer-sheba: afterward Abimelech and Phichol his chiefe captaine rose vp, and turned againe vnto the land of the Philistims.
Genesis 21:33	And Abraham planted a groue in Beer-sheba, and called there on the Name of ye Lord, the euerlasting God.
Genesis 21:34	And Abraham was a stranger in the Philistims land a long season.
Genesis 22:1	And after these things God did proue Abraham, and said vnto him, Abraham. Who answered, Here am I.
Genesis 22:2	And he said, Take nowe thine onely sonne Izhak whom thou louest, and get thee vnto the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering vpon one of the mountaines, which I will shewe thee.
Genesis 22:3	Then Abraham rose vp early in the morning, and sadled his asse, and tooke two of his seruants with him, and Izhak his sonne, and cloue wood for the burnt offering, and rose vp and went to the place, which God had tolde him.
Genesis 22:4	Then the third day Abraham lift vp his eyes, and sawe the place afarre off,
Genesis 22:5	And said vnto his seruants, Abide you here with the asse: for I and the childe will go yonder and worship, and come againe vnto you.
Genesis 22:6	Then Abraham tooke the wood of the burnt offering, and layed it vpon Izhak his sonne, and he tooke the fire in his hand, and the knife: and they went both together.
Genesis 22:7	Then spake Izhak vnto Abraham his father, and said, My father. And he answered, Here am I, my sonne. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lambe for ye burnt offring?
Genesis 22:8	Then Abraham answered, My sonne, God will prouide him a lambe for a burnt offering: so they went both together.
Genesis 22:9	And when they came to the place which God had shewed him, Abraham builded an altar there, and couched ye wood, and bound Izhak his sonne and laid him on the altar vpon the wood.
Genesis 22:10	And Abraham stretching forth his hand, tooke the knife to kill his sonne.
Genesis 22:11	But the Angel of the Lord called vnto him from heauen, saying, Abraham, Abraham. And he answered, Here am I.
Genesis 22:12	Then he said, Lay not thine hand vpon the childe, neither doe any thing vnto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing for my sake thou hast not spared thine onely sonne.
Genesis 22:13	And Abraham lifting vp his eyes, looked: and behold, there was a ramme behind him caught by the hornes in a bush. then Abraham went and tooke the ramme, and offered him vp for a burnt offering in the steade of his sonne.
Genesis 22:14	And Abraham called the name of that place, Iehouah-ijreh. as it is said this day, In the mount will the Lord be seene.
Genesis 22:15	And the Angel of the Lord cryed vnto Abraham from heauen the second time,
Genesis 22:16	And saide, By my selfe haue I sworne (saith ye Lord) because thou hast done this thing, and hast not spared thine onely sonne,
Genesis 22:17	Therefore will I surely blesse thee, and will greatly multiplie thy seede, as the starres of the heauen, and as the sand which is vpon the sea shore, and thy seede shall possesse the gate of his enemies.
Genesis 22:18	And in thy seede shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because thou hast obeyed my voyce.
Genesis 22:19	Then turned Abraham againe vnto his seruants, and they rose vp and went together to Beer-sheba: and Abraham dwelt at Beer-sheba.
Genesis 22:20	And after these things one tolde Abraham, saying, Beholde Milcah, she hath also borne children vnto thy brother Nahor:
Genesis 22:21	To wit, Vz his eldest sonne, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram,
Genesis 22:22	And Chesed and Hazo, and Pildash, and Iidlaph, and Bethuel.
Genesis 22:23	And Bethuel begate Rebekah: these eight did Milcah beare to Nahor Abrahams brother.
Genesis 22:24	And his concubine called Reumah, she bare also Tebah, and Gahan, and Thahash and Maachah.
Genesis 23:1	When Sarah was an hundreth twentie and seuen yeere olde (so long liued she).
Genesis 23:2	Then Sarah dyed in Kiriath-arba: the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan. and Abraham came to mourne for Sarah and to weepe for her.
Genesis 23:3	Then Abraham rose vp from the sight of his corps, and talked with the Hittites, saying,
Genesis 23:4	I am a stranger, and a forreiner among you, giue me a possession of buriall with you, that I may burie my dead out of my sight.
Genesis 23:5	Then the Hittites answered Abraham, saying vnto him,
Genesis 23:6	Heare vs, my lorde: thou art a prince of God among vs: in the chiefest of our sepulchres bury thy dead: none of vs shall forbid thee his sepulchre, but thou mayest bury thy dead therein.
Genesis 23:7	Then Abraham stoode vp, and bowed him selfe before the people of the land of the Hittites.
Genesis 23:8	And he communed with them, saying, If it be your minde, that I shall bury my dead out of my sight, heare me, and intreate for me to Ephron the sonne of Zohar,
Genesis 23:9	That he would giue me ye caue of Machpelah, which he hath in the ende of his field: that he would giue it me for as much money as it is worth, for a possession to bury in among you.
Genesis 23:10	(For Ephron dwelt among the Hittites) Then Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of all the Hittites that went in at the gates of his citie, saying,
Genesis 23:11	No, my Lord, heare me: the fielde giue I thee, and the caue, that therein is, I giue it thee: euen in the presence of the sonnes of my people giue I it thee, to bury thy dead.
Genesis 23:12	Then Abraham bowed himselfe before the people of the land,
Genesis 23:13	And spake vnto Ephron in the audience of the people of the countrey, saying, Seeing thou wilt giue it, I pray thee, heare me, I will giue the price of the fielde: receiue it of me, and I will bury my dead there.
Genesis 23:14	Ephron then answered Abraham, saying vnto him,
Genesis 23:15	My lord, hearken vnto me: ye land is worth foure hundreth shekels of siluer: what is that betweene me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.
Genesis 23:16	So Abraham hearkened vnto Ephron, and Abraham weyed to Ephron the siluer, which he had named, in the audience of the Hittites, euen foure hundreth siluer shekels of currant money among marchants.
Genesis 23:17	So the fielde of Ephron which was in Machpelah, and ouer against Mamre, euen the field and the caue that was therein, and all the trees that were in the fielde, which were in all the borders round about, was made sure
Genesis 23:18	Vnto Abraham for a possession, in ye sight of the Hittites, euen of all that went in at the gates of his citie.
Genesis 23:19	And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the caue of the fielde of Machpelah ouer against Mamre: the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 23:20	Thus the fielde and the caue, that is therein, was made sure vnto Abraham for a possession of buriall by the Hittites.
Genesis 24:1	Nowe Abraham was olde, and striken in yeeres, and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things.
Genesis 24:2	Therefore Abraham saide vnto his eldest seruant of his house, which had the rule ouer all that he had, Put nowe thine hand vnder my thigh,
Genesis 24:3	And I will make thee sweare by ye Lord God of the heauen, and God of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife vnto my sonne of the daughters of the Canaanites among who I dwel.
Genesis 24:4	But thou shalt go vnto my countrey, and to my kinred, and take a wife vnto my sone Izhak.
Genesis 24:5	And the seruant saide to him, What if the woman will not come with me to this land? shall I bring thy sonne againe vnto the lande from whence thou camest?
Genesis 24:6	To whom Abraham answered, Beware that thou bring not my sonne thither againe.
Genesis 24:7	The Lord God of heauen, who tooke me from my fathers house, and from the land where I was borne, and that spake vnto me, and that sware vnto me, saying, Vnto thy seede wil I giue this land, he shall send his Angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife vnto my sonne from thence.
Genesis 24:8	Neuertheles if the woman wil not follow thee, then shalt thou bee discharged of this mine othe: onely bring not my sonne thither againe.
Genesis 24:9	Then the seruant put his hand vnder the thigh of Abraham his master, and sware to him for this matter.
Genesis 24:10	So the seruant tooke ten camels of the camels of his master, and departed: (for he had all his masters goods in his hand:) and so he arose, and went to Aram Naharaim, vnto the citie of Nahor.
Genesis 24:11	And he made his camels to lye downe without the citie by a well of water, at euentide about the time that the women come out to draw water.
Genesis 24:12	And he said, O Lord God of my master Abraham, I beseech thee, send me good speede this day, and shew mercy vnto my master Abraham.
Genesis 24:13	Lo, I stand by the well of water, whiles the mens daughters of this citie come out to drawe water.
Genesis 24:14	Graunt therefore that ye maide, to whom I say, Bowe downe thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drinke: if she say, Drinke, and I will giue thy camels drinke also: may be she that thou hast ordeined for thy seruant Izhak: and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewed mercy on my master.
Genesis 24:15	And nowe yer he had left speaking, beholde, Rebekah came out, the daughter of Bethuel, sonne of Milcah the wife of Nahor Abrahams brother, and her pitcher vpon her shoulder.
Genesis 24:16	(And the maide was very faire to looke vpon, a virgine and vnknowen of man) and she went downe to the well, and filled her pitcher, and came vp.
Genesis 24:17	Then the seruant ranne to meete her, and said, Let me drinke, I pray thee, a litle water of thy pitcher.
Genesis 24:18	And she said, Drinke sir: and she hasted, and let downe her pitcher vpon her hand and gaue him drinke.
Genesis 24:19	And when she had giuen him drinke, she said, I will drawe water for thy camels also vntill they haue drunken inough.
Genesis 24:20	And she powred out her pitcher into the trough speedily; and ranne againe vnto the well to drawe water, and she drewe for all his camels.
Genesis 24:21	So the man wondred at her, and helde his peace, to knowe whether the Lord had made his iourney prosperous or not.
Genesis 24:22	And when the camels had left drinking, the man tooke a golden abillement of halfe a shekell weight, and two bracelets for her hands, of ten shekels weight of golde:
Genesis 24:23	And he said, Whose daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee, Is there roume in thy fathers house for vs to lodge in?
Genesis 24:24	Then she said to him, I am the daughter of Bethuel the sonne of Milcah whom she bare vnto Nahor.
Genesis 24:25	Moreouer she said vnto him, We haue litter also and prouender ynough, and roume to lodge in.
Genesis 24:26	And the man bowed himselfe and worshipped the Lord,
Genesis 24:27	And said, Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abraham, which hath not withdrawen his mercie and his trueth from my master: for when I was in the way, the Lord brought me to my masters brethrens house.
Genesis 24:28	And the maide ranne and tolde them of her mothers house according to these wordes.
Genesis 24:29	Now Rebekah had a brother called Laban, and Laban ranne vnto the man to the well.
Genesis 24:30	For when he had seene the earings and the bracelets in his sisters hands, and when he heard the wordes of Rebekah his sister, saying, Thus said the man vnto me, then he went to the man, and loe, he stoode by the camels at the well.
Genesis 24:31	And he saide, Come in thou blessed of the Lord: wherefore standest thou without, seeing I haue prepared the house, and roume for ye camels?
Genesis 24:32	Then the man came into the house, and he vnsadled the camels, and brought litter and prouender for the camels, and water to wash his feete, and the mens feete that were with him.
Genesis 24:33	Afterward the meate was set before him: but he saide, I will not eate, vntill I haue saide my message: And he said, Speake on.
Genesis 24:34	Then he said, I am Abrahams seruant,
Genesis 24:35	And the Lord hath blessed my master wonderfully, that he is become great: for he hath giuen him sheepe, and beeues, and siluer, and golde, and men seruants, and maide seruants, and camels, and asses.
Genesis 24:36	And Sarah my masters wife hath borne a sonne to my master, when she was olde, and vnto him hath he giuen all that he hath.
Genesis 24:37	Now my master made me sweare, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife to my sonne of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell:
Genesis 24:38	But thou shalt go vnto my fathers house and to my kinred, and take a wife vnto my sonne.
Genesis 24:39	Then I saide vnto my master, What if the woman will not follow me?
Genesis 24:40	Who answered me, The Lord, before who I walke, will send his Angel with thee, and prosper thy iourney, and thou shalt take a wife for my sonne of my kinred and my fathers house.
Genesis 24:41	Then shalt thou be discharged of mine othe, when thou commest to my kinred: and if they giue thee not one, thou shalt be free from mine othe.
Genesis 24:42	So I came this day to the well, and said, O Lord, the God of my master Abraham, if thou nowe prosper my iourney which I goe,
Genesis 24:43	Behold, I stand by the well of water: when a virgine commeth forth to drawe water, and I say to her, Giue me, I pray thee, a litle water of thy pitcher to drinke,
Genesis 24:44	And she say to me, Drinke thou, and I will also drawe for thy camels, let her be ye wife, which the Lord hath prepared for my masters sonne.
Genesis 24:45	And before I had made an end of speaking in mine heart, beholde, Rebekah came foorth, and her pitcher on her shoulder, and she went downe vnto the well, and drewe water. Then I said vnto her, Giue me drinke, I pray thee.
Genesis 24:46	And she made haste, and tooke downe her pitcher from her shoulder, and said, Drinke, and I will giue thy camels drinke also. So I dranke, and she gaue the camels drinke also.
Genesis 24:47	Then I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? And she answered, The daughter of Bethuel Nahors sonne, whom Milcah bare vnto him. Then I put the abillement vpon her face, and the bracelets vpon her hands:
Genesis 24:48	And I bowed downe and worshipped the Lord, and blessed the Lord God of my master Abraham, which had brought me the right way to take my masters brothers daughter vnto his sone.
Genesis 24:49	Now therefore, if ye will deale mercifully and truely with my master, tell me: and if not, tell me that I may turne me to the right hand or to the left.
Genesis 24:50	Then answered Laban and Bethuel, and said, This thing is proceeded of the Lord: we cannot therefore say vnto thee, neither euill nor good.
Genesis 24:51	Beholde, Rebehak is before thee, take her and goe, that she may be thy masters sonnes wife, euen as the Lord hath said.
Genesis 24:52	And when Abrahams seruant heard their wordes, he bowed himselfe toward the earth vnto the Lord.
Genesis 24:53	Then the seruant tooke foorth iewels of siluer, and iewels of golde, and raiment, and gaue to Rebekah: also vnto her brother and to her mother he gaue gifts.
Genesis 24:54	Afterward they did eate and drinke, both he, and the men that were with him, and taried all night. and when they rose vp in the morning, he said, Let me depart vnto my master.
Genesis 24:55	Then her brother and her mother answered, Let the maide abide with vs, at the least ten dayes: then shall she goe.
Genesis 24:56	But he said vnto them, Hinder you me not, seeing the Lord hath prospered my iourney: send me away, that I may goe to my master.
Genesis 24:57	Then they said, We will call the maide, and aske her consent.
Genesis 24:58	And they called Rebekah, and saide vnto her, Wilt thou go with this man? And she answered, I will go.
Genesis 24:59	So they let Rebekah their sister goe, and her nourse, with Abrahams seruant and his men.
Genesis 24:60	And they blessed Rebekah, and sayde vnto her, Thou art our sister, growe into thousande thousands, and thy seede possesse the gate of his enemies.
Genesis 24:61	Then Rebekah arose, and her maydes, and rode vpon the camels, and followed the man. and the seruant tooke Rebekah, and departed.
Genesis 24:62	Nowe Izhak came from the way of Beer-lahai-roi, (for he dwelt in the South countrey)
Genesis 24:63	And Izhak went out. to pray in the fielde toward the euening: who lift vp his eyes and looked, and behold, the camels came.
Genesis 24:64	Also Rebekah lift vp her eyes, and when she saw Izhak, she lighted downe from the camel.
Genesis 24:65	(For shee had sayde to the seruant, Who is yonder man, that commeth in the fielde to meete vs? and the seruant had said, It is my master) So she tooke a vaile, and couered her.
Genesis 24:66	And the seruant tolde Izhak all things, that he had done.
Genesis 24:67	Afterward Izhak brought her into the tent of Sarah his mother, and he tooke Rebekah, and she was his wife, and he loued her: So Izhak was comforted after his mothers death.
Genesis 25:1	Nowe Abraham had taken him another wife called Keturah,
Genesis 25:2	Which bare him Zimran, and Iokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.
Genesis 25:3	And Iokshan begate Sheba, and Dedan: And the sonnes of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.
Genesis 25:4	Also the sonnes of Midian were Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah all these were the sonnes of Keturah.
Genesis 25:5	And Abraham gaue all his goods to Izhak,
Genesis 25:6	But vnto the sonnes of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham gaue giftes, and sent them away from Izhak his sonne (while he yet liued) Eastward to the East countrey.
Genesis 25:7	And this is the age of Abrahams life, which he liued, an hundreth seuentie and fiue yeere.
Genesis 25:8	Then Abraham yeelded the spirit, and died in a good age, an olde man, and of great yeeres, and was gathered to his people.
Genesis 25:9	And his sonnes, Izhak and Ishmael buryed him in the caue of Machpelah, in the fielde of Ephron sonne of Zohar the Hittite, before Mamre.
Genesis 25:10	Which fielde Abraham bought of the Hittites, where Abraham was buryed with Sarah his wife.
Genesis 25:11	And after the death of Abraham God blessed Izhak his sonne, and Izhak dwelt by Beer-lahai-roi.
Genesis 25:12	Nowe these are the generations of Ishmael Abrahams sonne, whome Hagar the Egyptian Sarahs handmayde bare vnto Abraham.
Genesis 25:13	And these are the names of the sonnes of Ishmael, name by name, according to their kinreds; the eldest sonne of Ishmael was Nebaioth, then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
Genesis 25:14	And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,
Genesis 25:15	Hadar, and Tema, Ietur, Naphish, and Kedemah.
Genesis 25:16	These are the sonnes of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their townes and by their castles: to wit, twelue princes of their nations.
Genesis 25:17	(And these are the yeeres of the life of Ishmael, an hundreth thirtie and seuen yeere, and he yeelded the spirit, and dyed, and was gathered vnto his people)
Genesis 25:18	And they dwelt from Hauilah vnto Shur, that is towardes Egypt, as thou goest to Asshur. Ishmael dwelt in the presence of all his brethren.
Genesis 25:19	Likewise these are the generations of Izhak Abrahams sonne Abraham begate Izhak,
Genesis 25:20	And Izhak was fourtie yeere olde, when he tooke Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Aramite of Padan Aram, and sister to Laban the Aramite.
Genesis 25:21	And Izhak prayed vuto the Lord for his wife, because she was barren: and the Lord was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceiued,
Genesis 25:22	But the children stroue together within her: therefore shee sayde, Seeing it is so, why am I thus? wherefore she went to aske the Lord.
Genesis 25:23	And the Lord sayd to her, Two nations are in thy wombe, and two maner of people shalbe diuided out of thy bowels, and the one people shall be mightier then the other, and the elder shall serue the yonger.
Genesis 25:24	Therefore when her time of deliuerance was fulfilled, behold, twinnes were in her wombe.
Genesis 25:25	So he that came out first was red, and he was all ouer as a rough garment, and they called his name Esau.
Genesis 25:26	And afterward came his brother out, and his hande helde Esau by the heele: therefore his name was called Iaakob. Nowe Izhak was threescore yeere olde when Rebekah bare them.
Genesis 25:27	And the boyes grew, and Esau was a cunning hunter, and liued in the fields: but Iaakob was a plaine man, and dwelt in tentes.
Genesis 25:28	And Izhak loued Esau, for venison was his meate, but Rebekah loued Iaakob.
Genesis 25:29	Nowe Iaakob sod pottage, and Esau came from the fielde and was wearie.
Genesis 25:30	Then Esau sayd to Iaakob, Let me eate, I pray thee, of that pottage so red, for I am wearie. Therefore was his name called Edom.
Genesis 25:31	And Iaakob sayd, Sell me euen nowe thy birthright.
Genesis 25:32	And Esau sayd, Lo, I am almost dead, what is then this birthright to me?
Genesis 25:33	Iaakob then said, Sweare to me euen now. And he sware to him, and solde his birthright vnto Iaakob.
Genesis 25:34	Then Iaakob gaue Esau bread and pottage of lentiles: and he did eate and drinke, and rose vp, and went his way: So Esau contemned his birthright.
Genesis 26:1	And there was a famine in the lande besides the first famine that was in the dayes of Abraham. Wherefore Izhak went to Abimelech King of the Philistims vnto Gerar.
Genesis 26:2	For the Lord appeared vnto him, and sayde, Goe not downe into Egypt, but abide in the land which I shall shewe vnto thee.
Genesis 26:3	Dwell in this lande, and I will be with thee, and will blesse thee: for to thee, and to thy seede I will giue all these countreys: and I will performe the othe which I sware vnto Abraham thy father.
Genesis 26:4	Also I wil cause thy seede to multiply as the starres of heauen, and will giue vnto thy seede all these countreys: and in thy seede shall all the nations of the earth be blessed,
Genesis 26:5	Because that Abraham obeyed my voyce and kept mine ordinance, my commandements, my statutes, and my Lawes.
Genesis 26:6	So Izhak dwelt in Gerar.
Genesis 26:7	And the men of the place asked him of his wife, and he sayd, She is my sister: for he feared to say, She is my wife, least, sayde he, the men of the place shoulde kill me, because of Rebekah: for she was beautifull to the eye.
Genesis 26:8	So after hee had bene there long time, Abimelech King of the Philistims looked out at a windowe, and loe, he sawe Izhak sporting with Rebekah his wife.
Genesis 26:9	Then Abimelech called Izhak, and sayde, Loe, shee is of a suertie thy wife, and why saydest thou, She is my sister? To whom Izhak answered, Because I thought this, It may be that I shall dye for her.
Genesis 26:10	Then Abimelech said, Why hast thou done this vnto vs? one of the people had almost lien by thy wife, so shouldest thou haue brought sinne vpon vs.
Genesis 26:11	Then Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth this man, or his wife, shall die the death.
Genesis 26:12	Afterwarde Izhak sowed in that lande, and founde in the same yeere an hundreth folde by estimation: and so the Lord blessed him.
Genesis 26:13	And the man waxed mightie, and stil increased, till he was exceeding great,
Genesis 26:14	For he had flockes of sheepe, and heards of cattell, and a mightie housholde: therefore the Philistims had enuy at him.
Genesis 26:15	In so much that the Philistims stopped and filled vp with earth all the welles, which his fathers seruantes digged in his father Abrahams time.
Genesis 26:16	Then Abimelech sayde vnto Izhak, Get thee from vs, for thou art mightier then wee a great deale.
Genesis 26:17	Therefore Izhak departed thence and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there.
Genesis 26:18	And Izhak returning, digged the welles of water, which they had digged in the dayes of Abraham his father: for the Philistims had stopped them after the death of Abraham, and hee gaue them the same names, which his father gaue them.
Genesis 26:19	Izhaks seruantes then digged in the valley, and found there a well of liuing water.
Genesis 26:20	But the herdmen of Gerar did striue with Izhaks herdmen, saying, The water is ours: therefore called he the name of the well Esek, because they were at strife with him.
Genesis 26:21	Afterwarde they digged another well, and stroue for that also, and he called the name of it Sitnah.
Genesis 26:22	Then he remoued thence, and digged an other well, for the which they stroue not: therefore called hee the name of it Rehoboth, and sayde, Because the Lord hath nowe made vs roome, we shall increase vpon the earth.
Genesis 26:23	So he went vp thence to Beer-sheba.
Genesis 26:24	And the Lord appeared vnto him the same night, and sayde, I am the God of Abraham thy father: feare not, for I am with thee, and wil blesse thee, and will multiplie thy seede for my seruant Abrahams sake.
Genesis 26:25	Then he builte an altar there, and called vpon the Name of the Lord, and there spred his tent: where also Izhaks seruauntes digged a well.
Genesis 26:26	Then came Abimelech to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his friendes, and Phichol the captaine of his armie.
Genesis 26:27	To whom Izhak sayd, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate mee and haue put mee away from you?
Genesis 26:28	Who answered, Wee sawe certainely that the Lord was with thee, and wee thought thus, Let there be nowe an othe betweene vs, euen betweene vs and thee, and let vs make a couenant with thee.
Genesis 26:29	If thou shalt do vs no hurt, as we haue not touched thee, and as we haue done vnto thee nothing but good, and sent thee away in peace: thou nowe, the blessed of the Lord, doe this.
Genesis 26:30	Then hee made them a feast, and they dyd eate and drinke.
Genesis 26:31	And they rose vp betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: then Izhak let them go, and they departed from him in peace.
Genesis 26:32	And that same day Izhaks seruantes came and tolde him of a well, which they had digged, and said vnto him, We haue found water.
Genesis 26:33	So hee called it Shibah: therefore the name of the citie is called Beer-sheba vnto this day.
Genesis 26:34	Nowe when Esau was fourtie yeere olde, he tooke to wife Iudith, the daughter of Beeri an Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon an Hittite also.
Genesis 26:35	And they were a griefe of minde to Izhak and to Rebekah.
Genesis 27:1	And when Izhak was olde, and his eyes were dimme (so that he coulde not see) he called Esau his eldest sonne, and sayde vnto him, My sonne. And he answered him, I am here.
Genesis 27:2	Then he sayd, Beholde, I am nowe olde, and knowe not the day of my death:
Genesis 27:3	Wherefore nowe, I pray thee take thine instruments, thy quiuer and thy bowe, and get thee to the fielde, that thou mayest take mee some venison.
Genesis 27:4	Then make mee sauourie meate, such as I loue, and bring it me that I may eat, and that my soule may blesse thee, before I die.
Genesis 27:5	(Nowe Rebekah heard, when Izhak spake to Esau his sonne) and Esau went into the fielde to hunt for venison, and to bring it.
Genesis 27:6	Then Rebekah spake vnto Iaakob her sonne, saying, Beholde, I haue heard thy father talking with Esau thy brother, saying,
Genesis 27:7	Bring mee vension, and make mee sauourie meate, that I may eate and blesse thee before the Lord, afore my death.
Genesis 27:8	Nowe therefore, my sonne, heare my voyce in that which I command thee.
Genesis 27:9	Get thee nowe to the flocke, and bring me thence two good kids of the goates, that I may make pleasant meate of them for thy father, such as he loueth.
Genesis 27:10	Then shalt thou bring it to thy father, and he shall eate, to the intent that he may blesse thee before his death.
Genesis 27:11	But Iaakob sayde to Rebekah his mother, Beholde, Esau my brother is rough, and I am smoothe.
Genesis 27:12	My father may possibly feele me, and I shall seem to him to be a mocker: so shall I bring a curse vpon me, and not a blessing.
Genesis 27:13	But his mother sayd vnto him, vpon me be thy curse, my sonne: onely heare my voyce, and go and bring me them.
Genesis 27:14	So he went and set them, and brought them to his mother: and his mother made pleasant meat, such as his father loued.
Genesis 27:15	And Rebekah tooke faire clothes of her elder sonne Esau, which were in her house, and clothed Iaakob her yonger sonne:
Genesis 27:16	And she couered his hands and the smoothe of his necke with the skinnes of the kiddes of the goates.
Genesis 27:17	Afterward she put the pleasant meate and bread, which she had prepared, in the hand of her sonne Iaakob.
Genesis 27:18	And when he came to his father, he sayd, My father. Who answered, I am here: who art thou, my sonne?
Genesis 27:19	And Iaakob sayde to his father, I am Esau thy first borne, I haue done as thou badest me, arise, I pray thee: sit vp and eate of my venison, that thy soule may blesse me.
Genesis 27:20	Then Izhak said vnto his sonne, Howe hast thou founde it so quickly my sonne? Who sayde, Because the Lord thy God brought it to mine hande.
Genesis 27:21	Againe sayde Izhak vnto Iaakob, Come neere nowe, that I may feele thee, my sonne, whether thou be that my sonne Esau or not.
Genesis 27:22	Then Iaakob came neere to Izhak his father, and he felt him and sayd, The voyce is Iaakobs voyce, but the hands are the hands of Esau.
Genesis 27:23	(For he knewe him not, because his hands were rough as his brother Esaus hands: wherefore he blessed him)
Genesis 27:24	Againe he sayd, Art thou that my sonne Esau? Who answered, Yea.
Genesis 27:25	Then said he, Bring it me hither, and I will eate of my sonnes venison, that my soule may blesse thee. And he brought it to him, and he ate: also he brought him wine, and he dranke.
Genesis 27:26	Afterward his father Izhak sayd vnto him, Come neere nowe, and kisse me, my sonne.
Genesis 27:27	And hee came neere and kissed him. Then he smellled the sauour of his garmentes, and blessed him, and sayde, Behold, the smelll of my sonne is as the smelll of a fielde, which the Lord hath blessed.
Genesis 27:28	God giue thee therefore of the dewe of heauen, and the fatnesse of the earth, and plentie of wheate and wine.
Genesis 27:29	Let people bee thy seruantes, and nations bowe vnto thee: be Lord ouer thy brethren, and let thy mothers children honour thee. cursed be he that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.
Genesis 27:30	And when Izhak had made an ende of blessing Iaakob, and Iaakob was scarce gone out from the presence of Izhak his father, then came Esau his brother from his hunting,
Genesis 27:31	And hee also prepared sauourie meate and brought it to his father, and sayd vnto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his sonnes venison, that thy soule may blesse me.
Genesis 27:32	But his father Izhak sayde vnto him, Who art thou? And he answered, I am thy sonne, euen thy first borne Esau.
Genesis 27:33	Then Izhak was stricken with a marueilous great feare, and sayde, Who and where is hee that hunted venison, and brought it mee, and I haue eate of all before thou camest? and I haue blessed him, therefore he shalbe blessed.
Genesis 27:34	When Esau heard the wordes of his father, he cryed out with a great crye and bitter, out of measure, and sayde vnto his father, Blesse me, euen me also, my father.
Genesis 27:35	Who answered, Thy brother came with subtiltie, and hath taken away thy blessing.
Genesis 27:36	Then he sayde, Was hee not iustly called Iaakob? for hee hath deceiued mee these two times: he tooke my birthright, and loe, nowe hath he taken my blessing. Also he sayd, Hast thou not reserued a blessing for me?
Genesis 27:37	Then Izhak answered, and sayd vnto Esau, Beholde, I haue made him thy lorde, and all his brethre haue I made his seruants: also with wheate and wine haue I furnished him, and vnto thee now what shall I doe, my sonne?
Genesis 27:38	Then Esau sayde vnto his father, Hast thou but one blessing my father? blesse mee, euen me also, my father: and Esau lifted vp his voyce, and wept.
Genesis 27:39	Then Izhak his father answered, and sayde vnto him, Behold, the fatnesse of the earth shall be thy dwelling place, and thou shalt haue of the dewe of heauen from aboue.
Genesis 27:40	And by thy sword shalt thou liue, and shalt be thy brothers seruant. But it shall come to passe, when thou shalt get the masterie, that thou shalt breake his yoke from thy necke.
Genesis 27:41	Therefore Esau hated Iaakob, because of the blessing, wherewith his father blessed him. And Esau thought in his minde, The dayes of mourning for my father will come shortly, then I will slay may brother Iaakob.
Genesis 27:42	And it was told to Rebekah of the wordes of Esau her elder sonne, and shee sent and called Iaakob her yonger sonne, and sayd vnto him, Beholde, thy brother Esau is comforted against thee, meaning to kill thee:
Genesis 27:43	Now therefore my sonne, heare my voyce, arise, and flee thou to Haran to my brother Laban,
Genesis 27:44	And tarie with him a while vntill thy brothers fiercenesse be swaged,
Genesis 27:45	And till thy brothers wrath turne away from thee, and hee forget the thinges, which thou hast done to him: then will I sende and take thee from thence: why shoulde I bee depriued of you both in one day?
Genesis 27:46	Also Rebekah said to Izhak, I am weary of my life, for the daughters of Heth. If Iaakob take a wife of the daughters of Heth like these of the daughters of the lande, what auaileth it me to liue?
Genesis 28:1	Then Izhak called Iaakob and blessed him, and charged him, and sayde vnto him, Take not a wife of the daughters of Canaan.
Genesis 28:2	Arise, get thee to Padan Aram to the house of Bethuel thy mothers father, and thence take thee a wife of the daughters of Laban thy mothers brother.
Genesis 28:3	And God all sufficient blesse thee, and make thee to encrease, and multiplie thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people,
Genesis 28:4	And giue thee the blessing of Abraham, euen to thee and to thy seede with thee, that thou mayest inherite the lande (wherein thou art a stranger,) which God gaue vnto Abraham.
Genesis 28:5	Thus Izhak sent forth Iaakob, and he went to Padan Aram vnto Laban sonne of Bethuel the Aramite, brother to Rebekah, Iaakobs and Esaus mother.
Genesis 28:6	When Esau sawe that Izhak had blessed Iaakob, and sent him to Padan Aram, to set him a wife thence, and giuen him a charge when he blessed him, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan,
Genesis 28:7	And that Iaakob had obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Padan Aram:
Genesis 28:8	Also Esau seeing that the daughters of Canaan displeased Izhak his father,
Genesis 28:9	Then went Esau to Ishmael, and tooke vnto the wiues, which he had, Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abrahams sonne, the sister of Nabaioth, to be his wife.
Genesis 28:10	Now Iaakob departed from Beer-sheba, and went to Haran,
Genesis 28:11	And he came vnto a certaine place, and taried there al night, because the sunne was downe, and tooke of the stones of the place, and layde vnder his head and slept in the same place.
Genesis 28:12	Then he dreamed, and behold, there stoode a ladder vpon the earth, and the top of it reached vp to heauen: and loe, the Angels of God went vp and downe by it.
Genesis 28:13	And behold, the Lord stoode aboue it, and sayd, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Izhak: the land, vpon the which thou sleepest, wil I giue thee and thy seede.
Genesis 28:14	And thy seede shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the West, and to the East, and to the North, and to the South, and in thee and in thy seede shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
Genesis 28:15	And lo, I am with thee, and wil keepe thee whithersoeuer thou goest, and will bring thee againe into this lande: for I will not forsake thee vntill I haue performed that, that I haue promised thee.
Genesis 28:16	Then Iaakob awoke out of his sleepe, and sayde, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I was not aware.
Genesis 28:17	And he was afraid, and said, How fearefull is this place! this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heauen.
Genesis 28:18	Then Iaakob rose vp early in the morning, and tooke the stone that hee had layde vnder his head, and set it vp as a pillar, and powred oyle vpon the top of it.
Genesis 28:19	And he called ye name of that place Bethel: notwithstanding the name of the citie was at the first called Luz.
Genesis 28:20	Then Iaakob vowed a vowe, saying, If God will be with me, and will keepe me in this iourney which I go, and wil giue me bread to eate, and clothes to put on:
Genesis 28:21	So that I come againe vnto my fathers house in safetie, then shall the Lord be my God.
Genesis 28:22	And this stone, which I haue set vp as a pillar, shall be Gods house: and of all that thou shalt giue me, wil I giue the tenth vnto thee.
Genesis 29:1	Then Iaakob lift vp his feete and came into the East countrey.
Genesis 29:2	And as he looked about, behold there was a well in the field, and lo, three flocks of sheepe lay thereby (for at that well were the flockes watered) and there was a great stone vpon the welles mouth.
Genesis 29:3	And thither were all the flockes gathered, and they rolled the stone from the welles mouth, and watered the sheepe, and put the stone againe vpon the welles mouth in his place.
Genesis 29:4	And Iaakob sayde vnto them, My brethren, whence be ye? And they answered, We are of Haran.
Genesis 29:5	Then he sayd vnto them, Know ye Laban the sonne of Nahor? Who said, We know him.
Genesis 29:6	Againe he sayd vnto them, Is he in good health? And they answered, He is in good health, and beholde, his daughter Rahel commeth with the sheepe.
Genesis 29:7	Then he sayd, Lo, it is yet hie day, neither is it time that the cattell shoulde be gathered together: water ye the sheepe and go feede them.
Genesis 29:8	But they sayde, We may not vntill all the flocks be brought together, and till men rolle the stone from the welles mouth, that we may water the sheepe.
Genesis 29:9	While he talked with them, Rahel also came with her fathers sheepe, for she kept them.
Genesis 29:10	And assoone as Iaakob saw Rahel ye daughter of Laban his mothers brother, and the sheepe of Laban his mothers brother, then came Iaakob neere, and rolled the stone from the welles mouth, and watered ye flocke of Laban his mothers brother.
Genesis 29:11	And Iaakob kissed Rahel, and lift vp his voyce and wept.
Genesis 29:12	(For Iaakob tolde Rahel, that he was her fathers brother, and that he was Rebekahs sonne) then she ranne and tolde her father.
Genesis 29:13	And when Laban heard tell of Iaakob his sisters sonne, he ranne to meete him, and embraced him and kissed him, and brought him to his house: and he tolde Laban all these things.
Genesis 29:14	To whome Laban sayd, Well, thou art my bone and my flesh. and he abode with him the space of a moneth.
Genesis 29:15	For Laban sayde vnto Iaakob, Though thou be my brother, shouldest thou therfore serue me for nought? tell me, what shalbe thy wages?
Genesis 29:16	Now Laban had two daughters, the elder called Leah, and the yonger called Rahel.
Genesis 29:17	And Leah was tender eyed, but Rahel was beautifull and faire.
Genesis 29:18	And Iaakob loued Rahel, and sayde, I will serue thee seuen yeeres for Rahel thy yonger daughter.
Genesis 29:19	Then Laban answered, It is better that I giue her thee, then that I should giue her to another man: abide with me.
Genesis 29:20	And Iaakob serued seuen yeres for Rahel, and they seemed vnto him but a few dayes, because he loued her.
Genesis 29:21	Then Iaakob sayde to Laban, Giue me my wife, that I may goe in to her: for my terme is ended.
Genesis 29:22	Wherefore Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast.
Genesis 29:23	But whe the euening was come, he tooke Leah his daughter and brought her to him, and he went in vnto her.
Genesis 29:24	And Laban gaue his mayde Zilpah to his daughter Leah, to be her seruant.
Genesis 29:25	But when the morning was come, behold, it was Leah. Then sayde he to Laban, Wherefore hast thou done thus to mee? did not I serue thee for Rahel? wherfore then hast thou beguiled me?
Genesis 29:26	And Laban answered, It is not the maner of this place, to giue the yonger before the elder.
Genesis 29:27	Fulfill seuen yeeres for her, and we wil also giue thee this for the seruice, which thou shalt serue me yet seuen yeeres more.
Genesis 29:28	Then Iaakob did so, and fulfilled her seuen yeeres, so he gaue him Rahel his daughter to be his wife.
Genesis 29:29	Laban also gaue to Rahel his daughter Bilhah his mayde to be her seruant.
Genesis 29:30	So entred he in to Rahel also, and loued also Rahel more then Leah, and serued him yet seuen yeeres more.
Genesis 29:31	When the Lord saw that Leah was despised, he made her fruitful: but Rahel was barren.
Genesis 29:32	And Leah conceiued and bare a sonne, and she called his name Reuben: for she said, Because the Lord hath looked vpon my tribulation, now therefore mine husband will loue me.
Genesis 29:33	And she conceiued againe and bare a sonne, and sayde, Because the Lord heard that I was hated, he hath therefore giuen me this sonne also, and she called his name Simeon.
Genesis 29:34	And she conceiued againe and bare a sonne, and said, Now at this time wil my husband keepe mee company, because I haue borne him three sonnes: therefore was his name called Leui.
Genesis 29:35	Moreouer shee conceiued againe and bare a sonne, saying, Nowe will I prayse the Lord: therefore shee called his name Iudah, and left bearing.
Genesis 30:1	And when Rahel saw that she bare Iaakob no children, Rahel enuied her sister, and said vnto Iaakob, Giue me children, or els I dye.
Genesis 30:2	Then Iaakobs anger was kindled against Rahel, and he sayde, Am I in Gods steade, which hath withholden from thee the fruite of the wombe?
Genesis 30:3	And she said, Behold my maide Bilhah, goe in to her, and she shall beare vpon my knees, and I shall haue children also by her.
Genesis 30:4	Then shee gaue him Bilhah her mayde to wife, and Iaakob went in to her.
Genesis 30:5	So Bilhah conceiued and bare Iaakob a sonne.
Genesis 30:6	Then said Rahel, God hath giuen sentence on my side, and hath also heard my voyce, and hath giuen mee a sonne: therefore called shee his name, Dan.
Genesis 30:7	And Bilhah Rahels maide coceiued againe, and bare Iaakob the second sonne.
Genesis 30:8	Then Rahel said, with excellent wrestlings haue I wrestled with my sister, and haue gotten the vpper hande: and shee called his name, Naphtali.
Genesis 30:9	And when Leah saw that she had left bearing, shee tooke Zilpah her mayde, and gaue her Iaakob to wife.
Genesis 30:10	And Zilpah Leahs mayde bare Iaakob a sonne.
Genesis 30:11	Then sayd Leah, A companie commeth: and she called his name, Gad.
Genesis 30:12	Againe Zilpah Leahs mayde bare Iaakob another sonne.
Genesis 30:13	Then sayde Leah, Ah, blessed am I, for the daughters will blesse me. and she called his name, Asher.
Genesis 30:14	Nowe Reuben went in the dayes of the wheateharuest, and founde mandrakes in the fielde and brought them vnto his mother Leah. Then sayde Rahel to Leah, Giue me, I pray thee, of thy sonnes mandrakes.
Genesis 30:15	But shee answered her, Is it a small matter for thee to take mine husband, except thou take my sonnes mandrakes also? Then sayde Rahel, Therefore he shall sleepe with thee this night for thy sonnes mandrakes.
Genesis 30:16	And Iaakob came from the fielde in the euening, and Leah went out to meete him, and sayde, Come in to mee, for I haue bought and payed for thee with my sonnes mandrakes: and he slept with her that night.
Genesis 30:17	And God heard Leah and shee conceiued, and bare vnto Iaakob the fift sonne.
Genesis 30:18	Then said Leah, God hath giuen me my reward, because I gaue my mayde to my husband, and she called his name Issachar.
Genesis 30:19	After, Leah conceiued againe, and bare Iaakob the sixt sonne.
Genesis 30:20	Then Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowrie: nowe will mine husband dwell with me, because I haue borne him sixe sonnes: and she called his name Zebulun.
Genesis 30:21	After that, shee bare a daughter, and shee called her name Dinah.
Genesis 30:22	And God remembred Rahel, and God heard her, and opened her wombe.
Genesis 30:23	So she conceiued and bare a sonne, and said, God hath taken away my rebuke.
Genesis 30:24	And shee called his name Ioseph, saying, The Lord wil giue me yet another sonne.
Genesis 30:25	And assoone as Rahel had borne Ioseph, Iaakob said to Laban, Sende me away that I may go vnto my place and to my countrey.
Genesis 30:26	Giue me my wiues and my children, for whom I haue serued thee, and let me go: for thou knowest what seruice I haue done thee.
Genesis 30:27	To whom Laban answered, If I haue nowe found fauour in thy sight tarie: I haue perceiued that the Lord hath blessed me for thy sake.
Genesis 30:28	Also he said, Appoynt vnto me thy wages, and I will giue it thee.
Genesis 30:29	But he sayd vnto him, Thou knowest, what seruice I haue done thee, and in what taking thy cattell hath bene vnder me.
Genesis 30:30	For the litle, that thou haddest before I came, is increased into a multitude: and the Lord hath blessed thee by my comming: but nowe when shall I trauell for mine owne house also?
Genesis 30:31	Then he saide, What shall I giue thee? And Iaakob answered, Thou shalt giue mee nothing at all: if thou wilt doe this thing for mee, I will returne, feede, and keepe thy sheepe.
Genesis 30:32	I wil passe through all thy flockes this day, and separate from them all the sheepe with litle spots and great spots, and al blacke lambes among the sheepe, and the great spotted, and litle spotted among the goates: and it shalbe my wages.
Genesis 30:33	So shall my righteousnesse answere for me hereafter, when it shall come for my rewarde before thy face, and euery one that hath not litle or great spots among the goates, and blacke among the sheepe, the same shalbe theft with me.
Genesis 30:34	Then Laban sayde, Goe to, woulde God it might be according to thy saying.
Genesis 30:35	Therefore he tooke out the same day the hee goates that were partie coloured and with great spots, and all the shee goates with litle and great spots, and all that had white in them, and all the blacke among the sheepe, and put them in the keeping of his sonnes.
Genesis 30:36	And hee set three dayes iourney betweene himselfe and Iaakob. And Iaakob kept the rest of Labans sheepe.
Genesis 30:37	Then Iaakob tooke rods of greene popular, and of hasell, and of the chesnut tree, and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white appeare in the rods.
Genesis 30:38	Then he put the rods, which he had pilled, in the gutters and watering troughes, when the sheepe came to drink, before the sheepe. (for they were in heate, when they came to drinke)
Genesis 30:39	And the sheepe were in heate before the rods, and afterward brought forth yong of partie colour, and with small and great spots.
Genesis 30:40	And Iaakob parted these lambes, and turned the faces of the flocke towardes these lambes partie coloured and all maner of blacke, among the sheepe of Laban: so hee put his owne flockes by themselues, and put them not with Labans flocke.
Genesis 30:41	And in euery ramming time of the stronger sheepe, Iaakob layde the rods before the eyes of the sheepe in the gutters, that they might conceiue before the rods.
Genesis 30:42	But when the sheepe were feeble, hee put them not in: and so the feebler were Labans, and the stronger Iaakobs.
Genesis 30:43	So the man increased exceedingly, and had many flockes, and maide seruantes, and men seruants, and camels and asses.
Genesis 31:1	Now he heard the words of Labans sonnes, saying, Iaakob hath taken away all that was our fathers, and of our fathers goods hath he gotten all this honour.
Genesis 31:2	Also Iaakob beheld the countenance of Laban, that it was not towards him as in times past:
Genesis 31:3	And the Lord had said vnto Iaakob, Turne againe into the lande of thy fathers, and to thy kinred, and I wilbe with thee.
Genesis 31:4	Therefore Iaakob sent and called Rahel and Leah to the fielde vnto his flocke.
Genesis 31:5	Then sayde hee vnto them, I see your fathers countenance, that it is not towardes me as it was wont, and the God of my father hath bene with me.
Genesis 31:6	And yee knowe that I haue serued your father with all my might.
Genesis 31:7	But your father hath deceiued me, and changed my wages tenne times: but God suffred him not to hurt me.
Genesis 31:8	If he thus sayd, The spotted shall be thy wages, then all the sheepe bare spotted: and if he sayd thus, the party coloured shalbe thy rewarde, then bare all the sheepe particoloured.
Genesis 31:9	Thus hath God taken away your fathers substance, and giuen it me.
Genesis 31:10	For in ramming time I lifted vp mine eyes and saw in a dreame, and beholde, ye hee goates leaped vpon the shee goates, that were partie coloured with litle and great spots spotted.
Genesis 31:11	And the Angel of God sayde to mee in a dreame, Iaakob. And I answered, Lo, I am here.
Genesis 31:12	And he sayde, Lift vp nowe thine eyes, and see all the hee goates leaping vpon ye shee goates that are partie coloured, spotted with litle and great spots: for I haue seene all that Laban doeth vnto thee.
Genesis 31:13	I am the God of Beth-el, where thou anoyntedst the pillar, where thou vowedst a vowe vnto me. Nowe arise, get thee out of this countrey and returne vnto ye land where thou wast borne.
Genesis 31:14	Then answered Rahel and Leah, and sayde vnto him, Haue wee any more porcion and inheritance in our fathers house?
Genesis 31:15	Doeth not he count vs as strangers? for he hath solde vs, and hath eaten vp and consumed our money.
Genesis 31:16	Therefore all the riches, which God hath taken from our father, is ours and our childrens: nowe then whatsoeuer God hath saide vnto thee, doe it.
Genesis 31:17	Then Iaakob rose vp, and set his sonnes and his wiues vpon camels.
Genesis 31:18	And he caried away all his flockes, and al his substance which he had gotten, to wit, his riches, which he had gotten in Padan Aram, to goe to Izhak his father vnto the land of Canaan.
Genesis 31:19	Whe Laban was gone to shere his sheepe, Then Rahel stole her fathers idoles.
Genesis 31:20	Thus Iaakob stole away ye heart of Laban the Aramite: for he told him not that he fled.
Genesis 31:21	So fled he with all that he had, and he rose vp, and passed the riuer, and set his face towarde mount Gilead.
Genesis 31:22	And the third day after was it told Laban, that Iaakob fled.
Genesis 31:23	Then he tooke his brethren with him, and followed after him seuen dayes iourney, and ouertooke him at mount Gilead.
Genesis 31:24	And God came to Laban the Aramite in a dreame by night, and sayde vnto him, Take heede that thou speake not to Iaakob ought saue good.
Genesis 31:25	Then Laban ouertooke Iaakob, and Iaakob had pitched his tent in the mount: and Laban also with his brethren pitched vpon mount Gilead.
Genesis 31:26	Then Laban sayde to Iaakob, What hast thou done? thou hast euen stolen away mine heart and caried away my daughters as though they had bene taken captiues with the sworde.
Genesis 31:27	Wherfore diddest thou flie so secretly and steale away from me, and diddest not tel me, that I might haue sent thee foorth with mirth and with songs, with timbrel and with harpe?
Genesis 31:28	But thou hast not suffered me to kisse my sonnes and my daughters: nowe thou hast done foolishly in doing so.
Genesis 31:29	I am able to do you euill: but the God of your father spake vnto me yesternight, saying, Take heed that thou speake not to Iaakob ought saue good.
Genesis 31:30	Nowe though thou wentest thy way, because thou greatly longedst after thy fathers house, yet wherefore hast thou stollen my gods?
Genesis 31:31	Then Iaakob answered, and said to Laban, Because I was afraid, and thought that thou wouldest haue taken thy daughters from me.
Genesis 31:32	But with whome thou findest thy gods, let him not liue. Search thou before our brethre what I haue of thine, and take it to thee, (but Iaakob wist not that Rahel had stolen them)
Genesis 31:33	Then came Laban into Iaakobs tent, and into Leahs tent, and into the two maides tentes, but founde them not. So hee went out of Leahs tent, and entred into Rahels tent.
Genesis 31:34	(Nowe Rahel had taken the idoles, and put them in the camels litter and sate downe vpon them) and Laban searched al the tent, but found them not.
Genesis 31:35	Then said she to her father, My Lord, be not angrie that I cannot rise vp before thee: for the custome of women is vpon me: so he searched, but found not the idoles.
Genesis 31:36	The Iaakob was wroth, and chode with Laban: Iaakob also answered and sayd to Laban, What haue I trespassed? what haue I offended, that thou hast pursued after me?
Genesis 31:37	Seeing thou hast searched all my stuffe, what hast thou foud of all thine houshold stuffe? put it here before my brethren and thy brethren, that they may iudge betweene vs both.
Genesis 31:38	This twenty yere I haue bin with thee: thine ewes and thy goates haue not cast their yong, and the rammes of thy flocke haue I not eaten.
Genesis 31:39	Whatsoeuer was torne of beasts, I brought it not vnto thee, but made it good my selfe: of mine hand diddest thou require it, were it stollen by day or stollen by night.
Genesis 31:40	I was in the day consumed with heate, and with frost in the night, and my sleepe departed from mine eyes.
Genesis 31:41	Thus haue I bene twentie yeere in thine house, and serued thee fourteene yeeres for thy two daughters, and sixe yeeres for thy sheepe, and thou hast changed my wages tenne times.
Genesis 31:42	Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the feare of Izhak had bene with me, surely thou haddest sent me away nowe emptie: but God behelde my tribulation, and the labour of mine hads, and rebuked thee yester night.
Genesis 31:43	Then Laban answered, and saide vnto Iaakob, These daughters are my daughters, and these sonnes are my sonnes, and these sheepe are my sheepe, and all that thou seest, is mine, and what can I doe this day vnto these my daughters, or to their sonnes which they haue borne?
Genesis 31:44	Nowe therefore come and let vs make a couenant, I and thou, which may be a witnes betweene me and thee.
Genesis 31:45	Then tooke Iaakob a stone, and set it vp as a pillar:
Genesis 31:46	And Iaakob sayde vnto his brethren, Gather stones: who brought stones, and made an heape, and they did eate there vpon the heape.
Genesis 31:47	And Laban called it Iegar-sahadutha, and Iaakob called it Galeed.
Genesis 31:48	For Laban sayd, This heape is witnesse betweene me and thee this day: therefore he called the name of it Galeed.
Genesis 31:49	Also he called it Mizpah, because he said, The Lord looke betweene me and thee, when we shalbe departed one from another,
Genesis 31:50	If thou shalt vexe my daughters, or shalt take wiues beside my daughters: there is no man with vs, beholde, God is witnesse betweene me and thee.
Genesis 31:51	Moreouer Laban sayd to Iaakob, Beholde this heape, and behold the pillar, which I haue set betweene me and thee,
Genesis 31:52	This heape shall be witnesse, and the pillar shall be witnesse, that I will not come ouer this heape to thee, and that thou shalt not passe ouer this heape and this pillar vnto me for euill.
Genesis 31:53	The God of Abraham, and the God of Nabor, and the God of their father be iudge betweene vs: But Iaakob sware by the feare of his father Izhak.
Genesis 31:54	Then Iaakob did offer a sacrifice vpon the mount, and called his brethren to eate bread. and they did eate bread, and taried all night in the mount.
Genesis 31:55	And earely in the morning Laban rose vp and kissed his sonnes and his daughters, and blessed them, and Laban departing, went vnto his place againe.
Genesis 32:1	Nowe Iaakob went forth on his iourney and the Angels of God met him.
Genesis 32:2	And when Iaakob saw them, he said, This is Gods hoste, and called the name of the same place Mahanaim.
Genesis 32:3	Then Iaakob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother, vnto the land of Seir into the countrey of Edom:
Genesis 32:4	To whom he gaue commandement, saying, Thus shall ye speake to my lorde Esau: thy seruant Iaakob sayeth thus, I haue bene a stranger with Laban, and taried vnto this time.
Genesis 32:5	I haue beeues also and Asses, sheepe, and men seruantes, and women seruantes, and haue sent to shew my lord, that I may find grace in thy sight.
Genesis 32:6	So ye messengers came againe to Iaakob, saying, We came vnto thy brother Esau, and hee also commeth against thee and foure hundreth men with him.
Genesis 32:7	Then Iaakob was greatly afraid, and was sore troubled, and deuided the people that was with him, and the sheepe, and the beeues, and the camels into two companies.
Genesis 32:8	For he said, If Esau come to ye one company and smite it, the other companie shall escape.
Genesis 32:9	Moreouer Iaakob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Izhak: Lord, which saydest vnto me, Returne vnto thy coutrey and to thy kinred, and I will do thee good,
Genesis 32:10	I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies, and al the trueth, which thou hast shewed vnto thy seruant: for with my staffe came I ouer this Iorden, and now haue I gotte two bads.
Genesis 32:11	I pray thee, Deliuer me from the hande of my brother, from the hande of Esau: for I feare him, least he will come and smite me, and the mother vpon the children.
Genesis 32:12	For thou saydest; I will surely doe thee good, and make thy seede as the sande of the sea, which can not be nombred for multitude.
Genesis 32:13	And he taryed there the same night, and tooke of that which came to had, a present for Esau his brother:
Genesis 32:14	Two hundreth shee goates and twenty hee goates, two hundreth ewes and twentie rammes:
Genesis 32:15	Thirtie mylche camels with their coltes, fourtie kine, and ten bullockes, twentie she asses and ten foles.
Genesis 32:16	So he deliuered them into the hande of his seruants, euery droue by themselues, and saide vnto his seruants, Passe before me, and put a space betweene droue and droue.
Genesis 32:17	And he commanded the formost, saying, If Esau my brother meete thee, and aske thee, saying, Whose seruant art thou? And whither goest thou? And whose are these before thee?
Genesis 32:18	Then thou shalt say, They be thy seruant Iaakobs: it is a present sent vnto my lord Esau: and beholde, he him selfe also is behinde vs.
Genesis 32:19	So likewise commanded he the seconde and the thirde, and all that followed the droues, saying, After this maner, ye shall speake vnto Esau, when ye finde him.
Genesis 32:20	And ye shall say moreouer, Beholde, thy seruant Iaakob commeth after vs (for he thought, I will appease his wrath with the present that goeth before me, and afterwarde I will see his face: it may be that he will accept me.)
Genesis 32:21	So went the present before him: but he taried that night with the companie.
Genesis 32:22	And he rose vp the same night, and tooke his two wiues, and his two maides, and his eleuen children, and went ouer the forde Iabbok.
Genesis 32:23	And he tooke them, and sent them ouer the riuer, and sent ouer that he had.
Genesis 32:24	Now when Iaakob was left him selfe alone, there wrestled a man with him vnto the breaking of the day.
Genesis 32:25	And he sawe that he could not preuaile against him: therefore he touched the holowe of his thigh, and the holowe of Iaakobs thigh was loosed, as he wrestled with him.
Genesis 32:26	And he saide, Let me goe, for the morning appeareth. Who answered, I will not let thee go except thou blesse me.
Genesis 32:27	Then said he vnto him, What is thy name? And he said, Iaakob.
Genesis 32:28	Then said he, Thy name shalbe called Iaakob no more, but Israel: because thou hast had power with God, thou shalt also preuaile with men.
Genesis 32:29	Then Iaakob demaded, saying, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore now doest thou aske my name? and he blessed him there
Genesis 32:30	And Iaakob called the name of the place, Peniel: for, saide he, I haue seene God face to face, and my life is preserued.
Genesis 32:31	And the sunne rose vp to him as he passed Peniel, and he halted vpon his thigh.
Genesis 32:32	Therefore the children of Israel eate not of the sinewe that shranke in the hollowe of the thigh, vnto this day: because he touched the sinew that shranke in the holow of Iaakobs thigh.
Genesis 33:1	And as Iaakob lift vp his eyes, and looked, behold, Esau came, and with him foure hundreth men: and he deuided the children to Leah, and to Rahel, and to the two maides.
Genesis 33:2	And he put the maides, and their children formost, and Leah, and her children after, and Rahel, and Ioseph hindermost.
Genesis 33:3	So he went before them and bowed him selfe to the ground seuen times, vntill he came neere to his brother.
Genesis 33:4	Then Esau ranne to meete him, and embraced him, and fell on his necke, and kissed him, and they wept.
Genesis 33:5	And he lift vp his eyes, and sawe the women, and the children, and saide, Who are these with thee? And he answered, They are ye childre whome God of his grace hath giuen thy seruant.
Genesis 33:6	Then came the maides neere, they, and their children, and bowed themselues.
Genesis 33:7	Leah also with her children came neere and made obeysance: and after Ioseph and Rahel drew neere, and did reuerence.
Genesis 33:8	Then he said, What meanest thou by all this droue, which I met? Who answered, I haue sent it, that I may finde fauour in the sight of my lorde:
Genesis 33:9	And Esau said, I haue ynough, my brother: keepe that thou hast to thy selfe.
Genesis 33:10	But Iaakob answered, Nay, I pray thee: if I haue found grace nowe in thy sight, then receiue my present at mine hande: for I haue seene thy face, as though I had seene the face of God, because thou hast accepted me.
Genesis 33:11	I pray thee take my blessing, that is brought thee: for God hath had mercie on me, and therefore I haue all things: so he compelled him, and he tooke it.
Genesis 33:12	And he saide, Let vs take our iourney and go, and I will goe before thee.
Genesis 33:13	Then he answered him, My lord knoweth, that the children are tender, and the ewes and kine with yong vnder mine hande: and if they should ouerdriue them one day, all the flocke would die.
Genesis 33:14	Let now my lord go before his seruant, and I will driue softly, according to ye pase of ye cattel, which is before me, and as the children be able to endure, vntill I come to my lord vnto Seir.
Genesis 33:15	Then Esau said, I will leaue then some of my folke with thee. And he answered, what needeth this? let me finde grace in the sight of my lorde.
Genesis 33:16	So Esau returned, and went his way that same day vnto Seir.
Genesis 33:17	And Iaakob went forwarde towarde Succoth, and built him an house, and made boothes for his cattell: therefore he called the name of the place Succoth.
Genesis 33:18	Afterward, Iaakob came safe to Sheche a citie, which is in the lande of Canaan, when he came from Padan Aram, and pitched before the citie.
Genesis 33:19	And there he bought a parcell of ground, where hee pitched his tent, at the hande of the sonnes of Hamor Shechems father, for an hundreth pieces of money.
Genesis 33:20	And he set vp there an altar, and called it, The mightie God of Israel.
Genesis 34:1	Then Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare vnto Iaakob, went out to see the daughters of that countrey.
Genesis 34:2	Whome when Shechem the sonne of Hamor the Hiuite lorde of that countrey sawe, hee tooke her, and lay with her, and defiled her.
Genesis 34:3	So his heart claue vnto Dinah the daughter of Iaakob: and he loued the maide, and spake kindely vnto the maide.
Genesis 34:4	Then said Shechem to his father Hamor, saying, Get me this maide to wife.
Genesis 34:5	(Nowe Iaakob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter, and his sonnes were with his cattell in the fielde: therefore Iaakob helde his peace, vntill they were come.)
Genesis 34:6	Then Hamor the father of Shechem went out vnto Iaakob to commune with him.
Genesis 34:7	And whe the sonnes of Iaakob were come out of the fielde and heard it, it grieued the men, and they were very angry, because he had wrought villenie in Israel, in that he had lyen with Iaakobs daughter: which thing ought not to be done.
Genesis 34:8	And Hamor communed with them, saying, the soule of my sonne Shechem longeth for your daughter: giue her him to wife, I pray you.
Genesis 34:9	So make affinitie with vs: giue your daughters vnto vs, and take our daughters vnto you,
Genesis 34:10	And ye shall dwell with vs, and the lande shalbe before you: dwell, and doe your businesse in it, and haue your possessions therein.
Genesis 34:11	Shechem also said vnto her father and vnto her brethren, Let me finde fauour in your eyes, and I will giue whatsoeuer ye shall appoint me.
Genesis 34:12	Aske of me abundantly both dowrie and giftes, and I will giue as ye appoint me, so that ye giue me the maide to wife.
Genesis 34:13	Then the sonnes of Iaakob answered Shechem and Hamor his father, talking deceitfully, because he had defiled Dinah their sister,
Genesis 34:14	And they said vnto them, We can not do this thing, to giue our sister to an vncircumcised man: for that were a reproofe vnto vs.
Genesis 34:15	But in this will we consent vnto you, if ye will be as we are, that euery man childe among you be circumcised:
Genesis 34:16	Then will we giue our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to vs, and will dwell with you, and be one people.
Genesis 34:17	But if ye will not hearken vnto vs to be circumcised, then will we take our daughter and depart.
Genesis 34:18	Nowe their wordes pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamors sonne.
Genesis 34:19	And the yong man deferd not to doe the thing because he loued Iaakobs daughter: he was also the most set by of all his fathers house.
Genesis 34:20	Then Hamor and Shechem his Sonne went vnto the gate of their citie, and communed with the men of their citie, saying,
Genesis 34:21	These men are peaceable with vs: and that they may dwell in the land, and doe their affaires therin (for behold, the land hath roume ynough for them) let vs take their daughters to wiues, and giue them our daughters.
Genesis 34:22	Onely herein will the men consent vnto vs for to dwell with vs, and to be one people, if all the men children among vs be circumcised as they are circumcised.
Genesis 34:23	Shall not their flockes and their substance and all their cattell be ours? onely let vs consent herein vnto them, and they will dwell with vs.
Genesis 34:24	And vnto Hamor, and Shechem his sonne hearkened all that went out of the gate of his citie: and all the men children were circumcised, euen all that went out of the gate of his citie.
Genesis 34:25	And on the thirde day (when they were sore) two of the sonnes of Iaakob, Simeon and Leui, Dinahs brethren tooke either of them his sworde and went into the citie boldly, and slue euery male.
Genesis 34:26	They slewe also Hamor and Shechem his sonne with the edge of the sword, and tooke Dinah out of Shechems house, and went their way.
Genesis 34:27	Againe the other sonnes of Iaakob came vpon the dead, and spoyled the citie, because they had defiled their sister.
Genesis 34:28	They tooke their sheepe and their beeues, and their asses, and whatsoeuer was in the citie, and in the fieldes.
Genesis 34:29	Also they caryed away captiue and spoyled all their goods, and all their children and their wiues, and all that was in the houses.
Genesis 34:30	Then Iaakob said to Simeon and Leui, Ye haue troubled me, and made me stinke among the inhabitats of the land, aswell the Canaanites, as the Perizzites, and and I being few in nomber, they shall gather theselues together against me, and slay me, and so shall I, and my house be destroied.
Genesis 34:31	And they answered, Shoulde hee abuse our sister as a whore?
Genesis 35:1	Then God sayde to Iaakob, Arise, goe vp to Beth-el and dwell there, and make there an altar vnto God, that appeared vnto thee, when thou fleddest from Esau thy brother.
Genesis 35:2	Then saide Iaakob vnto his houshold and to all that were with him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and clense your selues, and change your garments:
Genesis 35:3	For we will rise and goe vp to Beth-el, and I will make an altar there vnto God, which heard me in the day of my tribulation, and was with me in the way which I went.
Genesis 35:4	And they gaue vnto Iaakob all the strange gods, which were in their hands, and all their earings which were in their eares, and Iaakob hidde them vnder an oke, which was by Shechem.
Genesis 35:5	Then they went on their iourney, and the feare of God was vpon the cities that were roud about them: so that they did not follow after the sonnes of Iaakob.
Genesis 35:6	So came Iaakob to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan: (the same is Beth-el) hee and all the people that was with him.
Genesis 35:7	And he built there an altar, and had called the place, The God of Beth-el, because that God appeared vnto him there, when he fled from his brother.
Genesis 35:8	Then Deborah Rebekahs nourse dyed, and was buried beneath Beth-el vnder an oke: and he called the name of it Allon Bachuth.
Genesis 35:9	Againe God appeared vnto Iaakob, after he came out of Padan Aram, and blessed him.
Genesis 35:10	Moreouer God said vnto him, Thy name is Iaakob: thy name shalbe no more called Iaakob, but Israel shalbe thy name: and hee called his name Israel.
Genesis 35:11	Againe God said vnto him, I am God all sufficient. growe, and multiplie. a nation and a multitude of nations shall spring of thee, and Kings shall come out of thy loynes.
Genesis 35:12	Also I will giue the lande, which I gaue to Abraham and Izhak, vnto thee: and vnto thy seede after thee will I giue that land.
Genesis 35:13	So God ascended from him in the place where he had talked with him.
Genesis 35:14	And Iaakob set vp a pillar in the place where he talked with him, a pillar of stone, and powred drinke offring thereon: also hee powred oyle thereon.
Genesis 35:15	And Iaakob called the name of the place, where God spake with him, Beth-el.
Genesis 35:16	Then they departed from Beth-el, and when there was about halfe a daies iourney of ground to come to Ephrath, Rahel trauailed, and in trauailing she was in perill.
Genesis 35:17	And whe she was in paines of her labour, the midwife saide vnto her, Feare not: for thou shalt haue this sonne also.
Genesis 35:18	Then as she was about to yeelde vp the Ghost (for she died) she called his name Ben-oni, but his father called him Beniamin.
Genesis 35:19	Thus died Rahel, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is Beth-lehem.
Genesis 35:20	And Iaakob set a pillar vpon her graue: This is the pillar of Rahels graue vnto this day.
Genesis 35:21	Then Israel went forwarde, and pitched his tent beyond Migdal-eder.
Genesis 35:22	Now, when Israel dwelt in that land, Reuben went, and lay with Bilhah his fathers concubine, and it came to Israels eare. And Iaakob had twelue sonnes.
Genesis 35:23	The sonnes of Leah: Reuben Iaakobs eldest sonne, and Simeon, and Leui, and Iudah, and Issachar, and Zebulun.
Genesis 35:24	The sonnes of Rahel: Ioseph and Beniamin.
Genesis 35:25	And the sonnes of Bilhah Rahels maide: Dan and Naphtali.
Genesis 35:26	And the sonnes of Zilpah Leahs maide: Gad and Asher. These are the sonnes of Iaakob, which were borne him in Padan Aram.
Genesis 35:27	Then Iaakob came vnto Izhak his father to Mamre a citie of Arbah: this is Hebron, where Abraham and Izhak were strangers.
Genesis 35:28	And the daies of Izhak were an hundreth and fourescore yeeres.
Genesis 35:29	And Izhak gaue vp the ghost and died, and was gathered vnto his people, being olde and full of daies: and his sonnes Esau and Iaakob buried him.
Genesis 36:1	Nowe these are the generations of Esau, which is Edom.
Genesis 36:2	Esau tooke his wiues of the daughters of Canaan: Adah the daughter of Elon an Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon an Hiuite,
Genesis 36:3	And tooke Basemath Ishmaels daughter, sister of Nebaioth.
Genesis 36:4	And Adah bare vnto Esau, Eliphaz: and Basemath bare Reuel.
Genesis 36:5	Also Aholibamah bare Ieush, and Iaalam, and Korah: these are the sonnes of Esau which were borne to him in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 36:6	So Esau tooke his wiues and his sonnes, and his daughters, and all the soules of his house, and his flocks, and all his cattell, and all his substance, which he had gotten in the land of Canaan, and went into an other countrey from his brother Iaakob.
Genesis 36:7	For their riches were so great, that they could not dwell together, and the lande, wherein they were strangers, coulde not receiue them because of their flockes.
Genesis 36:8	Therefore dwelt Esau in mount Seir: this Esau is Edom.
Genesis 36:9	So these are the generations of Esau father of Edom in mount Seir.
Genesis 36:10	These are the names of Esaus sonnes: Eliphaz, the sonne of Adah, the wife of Esau, and Reuel the sonne of Bashemath, the wife of Esau.
Genesis 36:11	And the sonnes of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz.
Genesis 36:12	And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esaus sonne, and bare vnto Eliphaz, Amalek: these be the sonnes of Adah Esaus wife.
Genesis 36:13	And these are the sonnes of Reuel: Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah: these were the sonnes of Bashemath Esaus wife.
Genesis 36:14	And these were the sonnes of Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, daughter of Zibeon Esaus wife: for she bare vnto Esau, Ieush, and Iaalam, and Korah.
Genesis 36:15	These were Dukes of the sonnes of Esau: the sonnes of Eliphaz, the first borne of Esau: Duke Teman, Duke Omar, Duke Zepho, Duke Kenaz,
Genesis 36:16	Duke Korah, Duke Gatam, Duke Amalek: these are the Dukes that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom: these were the sonnes of Adah.
Genesis 36:17	And these are the sonnes of Reuel Esaus sonne: Duke Nahath, Duke Zerah, Duke Shammah, Duke Mizzah: these are the Dukes that came of Reuel in the land of Edom: these are the sonnes of Bashemath Esaus wife.
Genesis 36:18	Likewise these were the sonnes of Aholibamah Esaus wife: Duke Ieush, Duke Iaalam, Duke Korah: these Dukes came of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah Esaus wife.
Genesis 36:19	These are the children of Esau, and these are the Dukes of them: This Esau is Edom.
Genesis 36:20	These are the sonnes of Seir the Horite, which inhabited the lande before, Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah.
Genesis 36:21	And Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan: these are the Dukes of the Horites, the sonnes of Seir in the land of Edom.
Genesis 36:22	And the sonnes of Lotan were, Hori and Hemam, and Lotans sister was Timna.
Genesis 36:23	And the sonnes of Shobal were these: Aluan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.
Genesis 36:24	And these are the sonnes of Zibeon: Both Aiah, and Anah: this was Anah that founde mules in the wildernesse, as he fedde his father Zibeons asses.
Genesis 36:25	And the children of Anah were these: Dishon and Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah.
Genesis 36:26	Also these are the sonnes of Dishan: Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
Genesis 36:27	The sonnes of Ezer are these: Bilhan, and Zaauan, and Akan.
Genesis 36:28	The sonnes of Dishan are these: Vz, and Aran.
Genesis 36:29	These are the Dukes of the Horites: Duke Lotan, Duke Shobal, Duke Zibeon, Duke Anah,
Genesis 36:30	Duke Dishon, Duke Ezer, Duke Dishan: these bee the Dukes of the Horites, after their Dukedomes in the land of Seir.
Genesis 36:31	And these are the Kings that reigned in the lande of Edom, before there reigned any King ouer the children of Israel.
Genesis 36:32	Then Bela the sonne of Beor reigned in Edom, and the name of his citie was Dinhabah.
Genesis 36:33	And when Bela dyed, Iobab the sonne of Zerah of Bozra reigned in his steade.
Genesis 36:34	When Iobab also was dead, Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his steade.
Genesis 36:35	And after the death of Husham, Hadad the sonne of Bedad, which slewe Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his steade, and the name of his citie was Auith.
Genesis 36:36	When Hadad was dead, then Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his steade.
Genesis 36:37	When Samlah was dead, Shaul of Rehoboth by the riuer, reigned in his steade.
Genesis 36:38	When Shaul dyed, Baal-hanan the sonne of Achbor reigned in his steade.
Genesis 36:39	And after the death of Baal-hanan the sonne of Achbor, Hadad reigned in his stead, and the name of his citie was Pau: and his wiues name Mehetabel the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
Genesis 36:40	Then these are the names of the Dukes of Esau according to their families, their places and by their names: Duke Timna, Duke Aluah, Duke Ietheth,
Genesis 36:41	Duke Aholibamah, Duke Elah, Duke Pinon,
Genesis 36:42	Duke Kenaz, Duke Teman, Duke Mibzar,
Genesis 36:43	Duke Magdiel, Duke Iram: these bee the Dukes of Edom, according to their habitations, in the lande of their inheritance. This Esau is the father of Edom.
Genesis 37:1	Iaakob nowe dwelt in the lande, wherein his father was a stranger, in the lande of Canaan.
Genesis 37:2	These are the generations of Iaakob, when Ioseph was seuenteene yeere olde: he kept sheepe with his brethren, and the childe was with the sonnes of Bilhah, and with the sonnes of Zilpah, his fathers wiues. And Ioseph brought vnto their father their euill saying.
Genesis 37:3	Nowe Israel loued Ioseph more then all his sonnes, because he begate him in his old age, and he made him a coat of many colours.
Genesis 37:4	So when his brethren sawe that their father loued him more then all his brethren, then they hated him, and could not speake peaceably vnto him.
Genesis 37:5	And Ioseph dreamed a dreame, and told his brethren, who hated him so much the more.
Genesis 37:6	For he saide vnto them, Heare, I pray you, this dreame which I haue dreamed.
Genesis 37:7	Beholde nowe, wee were binding sheues in the middes of the field: and loe, my shefe arose and also stoode vpright, and behold, your sheues compassed rounde about, and did reuerence to my shefe.
Genesis 37:8	Then his brethren saide to him, What, shalt thou reigne ouer vs, and rule vs? or shalt thou haue altogether dominion ouer vs? And they hated him so much the more, for his dreames, and for his wordes.
Genesis 37:9	Againe hee dreamed an other dreame, and tolde it his brethren, and saide, Behold, I haue had one dreame more, and beholde, the Sunne and the Moone and eleuen starres did reuerence to me.
Genesis 37:10	Then he tolde it vnto his father and to his brethren, and his father rebuked him, and saide vnto him, What is this dreame, which thou hast dreamed? shall I, and thy mother, and thy brethren come in deede and fall on the ground before thee?
Genesis 37:11	And his brethren enuied him, but his father noted the saying.
Genesis 37:12	Then his brethren went to keepe their fathers sheepe in Shechem.
Genesis 37:13	And Israel said vnto Ioseph, Doe not thy brethren keepe in Shechem? come and I will send thee to them.
Genesis 37:14	And he answered him, I am here. Then he saide vnto him, Goe now, see whether it bee well with thy brethren, and how the flocks prosper, and bring me word againe. so hee sent him from the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.
Genesis 37:15	Then a man found him: for lo, hee was wandring in the fielde, and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou?
Genesis 37:16	And he answered, I seeke my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they keepe sheepe.
Genesis 37:17	And the man said, they are departed hece: for I heard them say, Let vs goe vnto Dothan. Then went Ioseph after his brethren, and found them in Dothan.
Genesis 37:18	And when they sawe him a farre off, euen before he came at them, they conspired against him for to slay him.
Genesis 37:19	For they sayd one to another, Behold, this dreamer commeth.
Genesis 37:20	Come now therefore, and let vs slay him, and cast him into some pitte, and wee will say, A wicked beast hath deuoured him: then wee shall see, what will come of his dreames.
Genesis 37:21	But when Reuben heard that, he deliuered him out of their handes, and saide, Let vs not kill him.
Genesis 37:22	Also Reuben saide vnto them, Shed not blood, but cast him into this pitte that is in the wildernesse, and lay no hande vpon him. Thus he said, that he might deliuer him out of their hand, and restore him to his father againe.
Genesis 37:23	Now when Ioseph was come vnto his brethren, they stript Ioseph out of his coate, his particoloured coate that was vpon him.
Genesis 37:24	And they tooke him, and cast him into a pit, and the pit was emptie, without water in it.
Genesis 37:25	Then they sate them downe to eate bread: and they lift vp their eyes and looked, and behold, there came a companie of Ishmeelites from Gilead, and their camels laden with spicerie, and balme, and myrrhe, and were going to cary it downe into Egypt.
Genesis 37:26	Then Iudah said vnto his brethren, What auaileth it, if we slay our brother, though wee keepe his blood secret?
Genesis 37:27	Come and let vs sell him to the Ishmeelites, and let not our handes be vpon him: for he is our brother and our flesh: and his brethren obeyed.
Genesis 37:28	Then the Midianites marchant men passed by, and they drewe foorth, and lift Ioseph out of the pit, and solde Ioseph vnto the Ishmeelites for twentie pieces of siluer: who brought Ioseph into Egypt.
Genesis 37:29	Afterwarde Reuben returned to the pit, and beholde, Ioseph was not in the pit: then he rent his clothes,
Genesis 37:30	And returned to his brethren, and said, The childe is not yonder, and I, whither shall I goe?
Genesis 37:31	And they tooke Iosephs coate, and killed a kidde of the goates, and dipped the coate in the blood.
Genesis 37:32	So they sent that particoloured coat, and they brought it vnto their father, and saide, This haue we founde: see nowe, whether it be thy sonnes coate, or no.
Genesis 37:33	Then he knewe it and said, It is my sonnes coate: a wicked beast hath deuoured him: Ioseph is surely torne in pieces.
Genesis 37:34	And Iaakob rent his clothes, and put sackecloth about his loynes, and sorowed for his sonne a long season.
Genesis 37:35	Then all his sonnes and all his daughters rose vp to comfort him, but he woulde not be comforted, but said, Surely I will go downe into the graue vnto my sonne mourning: so his father wept for him.
Genesis 37:36	And the Midianites solde him into Egypt vnto Potiphar an Eunuche of Pharaohs, and his chiefe stewarde.
Genesis 38:1	And at that time Iudah went downe from his brethren, and turned in to a man called Hirah an Adullamite.
Genesis 38:2	And Iudah sawe there the daughter of a man called Suah a Canaanite: and he tooke her to wife, and went in vnto her.
Genesis 38:3	So she conceiued and bare a sonne, and he called his name Er.
Genesis 38:4	And she conceiued againe, and bare a sonne, and she called his name Onan.
Genesis 38:5	Moreouer she bare yet a sonne, whome she called Shelah: and Iudah was at Chezib when she bare him.
Genesis 38:6	Then Iudah tooke a wife to Er his first borne sonne whose name was Tamar.
Genesis 38:7	Now Er the first borne of Iudah was wicked in the sight of the Lord: therefore the Lord slewe him.
Genesis 38:8	Then Iudah said to Onan, Goe in vnto thy brothers wife, and do the office of a kinsman vnto her, and raise vp seede vnto thy brother.
Genesis 38:9	And Onan knewe that the seede should not be his: therefore when he went in vnto his brothers wife, he spilled it on the grounde, least he should giue seede vnto his brother.
Genesis 38:10	And it was wicked in the eyes of the Lord, which he did: wherefore he slewe him also.
Genesis 38:11	Then said Iudah to Tamar his daughter in lawe, Remaine a widowe in thy fathers house, till Shelah my sonne growe vp (for he thought thus, Least he die as well as his brethren.) So Tamar went and dwelt in her fathers house.
Genesis 38:12	And in processe of time also the daughter of Shuah Iudahs wife dyed. Then Iudah, when he had left mourning, went vp to his sheepe sherers to Timnah, he, and his neighbour Hirah the Adullamite.
Genesis 38:13	And it was tolde Tamar, saying, beholde, thy father in lawe goeth vp to Timnah, to shere his sheepe.
Genesis 38:14	Then she put her widowes garments off from her, and couered her with a vaile, and wrapped her selfe, and sate downe in Pethah-enaim, which is by the way to Timnah, because she sawe that Shelah was growen, and she was not giuen vnto him to wife.
Genesis 38:15	When Iudah sawe her, he iudged her an whore: for she had couered her face.
Genesis 38:16	And he turned to the way towardes her, and saide, Come, I pray thee, let me lie with thee. (for he knewe not that she was his daughter in lawe) And she answered, What wilt thou giue me for to lie with me?
Genesis 38:17	Then said he, I will sende thee a kid of the goates from the flocke. and she said, Well, if thou wilt giue me a pledge, till thou sende it.
Genesis 38:18	Then he saide, What is the pledge that I shall giue thee? And she answered, Thy signet, and thy cloke, and thy staffe that is in thine hande. So he gaue it her, and lay by her, and she was with childe by him.
Genesis 38:19	Then she rose, and went and put her vaile from her and put on her widowes raiment.
Genesis 38:20	Afterwarde Iudah sent a kid of the goates by the hande of his neighbour the Adullamite, for to receiue his pledge from the womans hand: but he found her not.
Genesis 38:21	Then asked he the men of that place, saying, Where is ye whore, that sate in Enaim by the way side? And they answered, There was no whore here.
Genesis 38:22	He came therefore to Iudah againe, and said, I can not finde her, and also the men of the place said, There was no whore there.
Genesis 38:23	Then Iudah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed: beholde, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her.
Genesis 38:24	Now after three moneths, one tolde Iudah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the whore, and lo, with playing the whore, she is great with childe. Then Iudah saide, Bring ye her foorth and let her be burnt.
Genesis 38:25	When she was brought foorth, she sent to her father in law, saying, By the man, vnto whom these things pertaine, am I with childe: and saide also, Looke, I pray thee, whose these are, the seale, and the cloke, and the staffe.
Genesis 38:26	Then Iudah knewe them, and said, She is more righteous then I: for she hath done it because I gaue her not to Shelah my sonne. So he lay with her no more.
Genesis 38:27	Now, when the time was come that she should be deliuered, beholde, there were twinnes in her wombe.
Genesis 38:28	And when she was in trauell, the one put out his hand: and the midwife tooke and bound a red threde about his hand, saying, This is come out first.
Genesis 38:29	But when he plucked his hand backe againe, loe, his brother came out, and the midwife said, How hast thou broken the breach vpon thee? and his name was called Pharez.
Genesis 38:30	And afterward came out his brother that had the red threde about his hande, and his name was called Zarah.
Genesis 39:1	Now Ioseph was brought downe into Egypt: and Potiphar an Eunuche of Pharaohs (and his chiefe stewarde an Egyptian) bought him at the hande of the Ishmeelites, which had brought him thither.
Genesis 39:2	And the Lord was with Ioseph, and he was a man that prospered and was in the house of his master the Egyptian.
Genesis 39:3	And his master sawe that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord made all that hee did to prosper in his hande.
Genesis 39:4	So Ioseph founde fauour in his sight, and serued him: and he made him ruler of his house, and put all that he had in his hand.
Genesis 39:5	And from that time that he had made him ruler ouer his house and ouer all that he had, the Lord blessed the Egyptians house for Iosephs sake: and the blessing of the Lord was vpon all that he had in the house, and in the fielde.
Genesis 39:6	Therefore he left all that he had in Iosephs hand, and tooke accompt of nothing, that was with him, saue onely of the bread, which he did eate. And Ioseph was a faire person, and well fauoured.
Genesis 39:7	Nowe therefore after these thinges, his masters wife cast her eyes vpon Ioseph, and saide, Lye with me.
Genesis 39:8	But he refused and said to his masters wife, Beholde, my master knoweth not what he hath in the house with me, but hath committed all that he hath to mine hande.
Genesis 39:9	There is no man greater in this house then I: neither hath he kept any thing from me, but only thee, because thou art his wife: how then can I do this great wickednes and so sinne against God?
Genesis 39:10	And albeit she spake to Ioseph day by day, yet he hearkened not vnto her, to lye with her, or to be in her company.
Genesis 39:11	Then on a certaine day Ioseph entred into the house, to doe his businesse: and there was no man of the houshold in the house:
Genesis 39:12	Therefore she caught him by his garmet, saying, Sleepe with me: but he left his garment in her hand and fled, and got him out.
Genesis 39:13	Nowe when she sawe that he had left his garment in her hand, and was fled out,
Genesis 39:14	She called vnto the men of her house, and tolde them, saying, Beholde, he hath brought in an Ebrewe vnto vs to mocke vs: who came in to me for to haue slept with me: but I cryed with a loude voyce.
Genesis 39:15	And when he heard that I lift vp my voice and cryed, he left his garment with me, and fled away, and got him out.
Genesis 39:16	So she layde vp his garment by her, vntill her lord came home.
Genesis 39:17	Then she tolde him according to these words, saying, The Ebrew seruat, which thou hast brought vnto vs, came in to me, to mocke me.
Genesis 39:18	But assoone as I lift vp my voyce and cried, he left his garment with me, and fled out.
Genesis 39:19	Then when his master heard the wordes of his wife, which she tolde him, saying, After this maner did thy seruant to me, his anger was kindled.
Genesis 39:20	And Iosephs master tooke him and put him in prison, in the place, where the kings prisoners lay bounde: and there he was in prison.
Genesis 39:21	But the Lord was with Ioseph, and shewed him mercie, and got him fauour in the sight of the master of the prison.
Genesis 39:22	And the keeper of the prison committed to Iosephs hande all the prisoners that were in the prison, and whatsoeuer they did there, that did he.
Genesis 39:23	And the keeper of the prison looked vnto nothing that was vnder his hande, seeing that the Lord was with him: for whatsoeuer he did, the Lord made it to prosper.
Genesis 40:1	And after these things, the butler of the King of Egypt and his baker offended their lorde the King of Egypt.
Genesis 40:2	And Pharaoh was angrie against his two officers, against the chiefe butler, and against the chiefe baker.
Genesis 40:3	Therefore he put them in ward in his chiefe stewardes house, in the prison and place where Ioseph was bound.
Genesis 40:4	And the chiefe steward gaue Ioseph charge ouer them, and he serued them: and they continued a season in warde.
Genesis 40:5	And they both dreamed a dreame, eyther of them his dreame in one night, eche one according to the interpretation of his dreame, both the butler and the baker of the King of Egypt, which were bounde in the prison.
Genesis 40:6	And when Ioseph came in vnto them in the morning, and looked vpon them, beholde, they were sad.
Genesis 40:7	And he asked Pharaohs officers, that were with him in his masters warde, saying, Wherefore looke ye so sadly to day?
Genesis 40:8	Who answered him, We haue dreamed, eche one a dreame, and there is none to interprete the same. Then Ioseph saide vnto them, Are not interpretations of God? tell them me nowe.
Genesis 40:9	So the chiefe butler tolde his dreame to Ioseph, and said vnto him, In my dreame, behold, a vine was before me,
Genesis 40:10	And in the vine were three branches, and as it budded, her flowre came foorth: and the clusters of grapes waxed ripe.
Genesis 40:11	And I had Pharaohs cup in mine hande, and I tooke the grapes, and wrung the into Pharaohs cup, and I gaue the cup into Pharaohs hand.
Genesis 40:12	Then Ioseph sayde vnto him, This is the interpretation of it: The three braunches are three dayes.
Genesis 40:13	Within three dayes shall Pharaoh lift vp thine head, and restore thee vnto thine office, and thou shalt giue Pharaohs cup into his hand after the olde maner, when thou wast his butler.
Genesis 40:14	But haue me in remembrance with thee, when thou art in good case, and shew mercie, I pray thee, vnto me, and make mention of me to Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring me out of this house.
Genesis 40:15	For I was stollen away by theft out of the land of the Ebrewes, and here also haue I done nothing, wherefore they should put mee in the dungeon.
Genesis 40:16	And when the chiefe baker sawe that the interpretation was good, hee saide vnto Ioseph, Also mee thought in my dreame that I had three white baskets on mine head.
Genesis 40:17	And in the vppermost basket there was of all maner baken meates for Pharaoh: and the birdes did eate them out of the basket vpon mine head.
Genesis 40:18	Then Ioseph answered, and saide, This is the interpretation thereof: The three baskets are three dayes:
Genesis 40:19	Within three dayes shall Pharaoh take thine head from thee, and shall hang thee on a tree, and the birdes shall eate thy flesh from off thee.
Genesis 40:20	And so the third day, which was Pharaohs birthday, hee made a feast vnto all his seruants: and hee lifted vp the head of the chiefe butler, and the head of the chiefe baker among his seruants.
Genesis 40:21	And he restored the chiefe butler vnto his butlershippe, who gaue the cup into Pharaohs hande,
Genesis 40:22	But he hanged the chiefe baker, as Ioseph had interpreted vnto them.
Genesis 40:23	Yet the chiefe butler did not remember Ioseph, but forgate him.
Genesis 41:1	And two yeeres after, Pharaoh also dreamed, and beholde, he stoode by a riuer,
Genesis 41:2	And loe, there came out of the riuer seuen goodly kine and fatfleshed, and they fedde in a medowe:
Genesis 41:3	And loe, seuen other kine came vp after the out of the riuer, euill fauoured and leane fleshed, and stoode by the other kine vpon the brinke of the riuer.
Genesis 41:4	And the euilfauoured and leane fleshed kine did eate vp the seuen welfauoured and fatte kine: so Pharaoh awoke.
Genesis 41:5	Againe he slept, and dreamed the second time: and beholde, seuen eares of corne grewe vpon one stalke, ranke and goodly.
Genesis 41:6	And loe, seuen thinne eares, and blasted with the east winde, sprang vp after them:
Genesis 41:7	And the thinne eares deuoured the seuen ranke and full eares. then Pharaoh awaked, and loe, it was a dreame.
Genesis 41:8	Nowe when the morning came, his spirit was troubled: therefore he sent and called all the soothsayers of Egypt, and all the wise men thereof, and Pharaoh tolde them his dreames: but none coulde interprete them to Pharaoh.
Genesis 41:9	Then spake the chiefe butler vnto Pharaoh, saying, I call to minde my faultes this day.
Genesis 41:10	Pharaoh being angrie with his seruantes, put me in ward in the chiefe stewards house, both me and the chiefe baker.
Genesis 41:11	Then we dreamed a dreame in one night, both I, and he: we dreamed eche man according to the interpretation of his dreame.
Genesis 41:12	And there was with vs a yong man, an Ebrew, seruant vnto the chiefe steward, whome when we told, he declared our dreames to vs, to euery one he declared according to his dreame.
Genesis 41:13	And as he declared vnto vs, so it came to passe: for he restored me to mine office, and hanged him.
Genesis 41:14	Then sent Pharaoh, and called Ioseph, and they brought him hastily out of prison, and he shaued him, and chaunged his rayment, and came to Pharaoh.
Genesis 41:15	Then Pharaoh sayde to Ioseph, I haue dreamed a dreame, and no man can interprete it, and I haue hearde say of thee, that when thou hearest a dreame, thou canst interprete it.
Genesis 41:16	And Ioseph answered Pharaoh, saying, Without me God shall answere for the wealth of Pharaoh.
Genesis 41:17	And Pharaoh sayde vnto Ioseph, In my dreame, beholde, I stoode by the banke of the riuer:
Genesis 41:18	And lo, there came vp out of the riuer seuen fat fleshed, and welfauoured kine, and they fedde in the medowe.
Genesis 41:19	Also loe, seuen other kine came vp after them, poore and very euilfauoured, and leanefleshed: I neuer sawe the like in all the lande of Egypt, for euilfauoured.
Genesis 41:20	And the leane and euilfauoured kine did eate vp the first seuen fat kine.
Genesis 41:21	And when they had eaten them vp, it could not be knowen that they had eaten them, but they were still as euilfauoured, as they were at the beginning: so did I awake.
Genesis 41:22	Moreouer I sawe in my dreame, and beholde, seuen eares sprang out of one stalke, full and faire.
Genesis 41:23	And lo, seuen eares, withered, thinne, and blasted with the East winde, sprang vp after them.
Genesis 41:24	And the thinne eares deuoured the seuen good eares. Nowe I haue tolde the soothsayers, and none can declare it vnto me.
Genesis 41:25	Then Ioseph answered Pharaoh, Both Pharaohs dreames are one. God hath shewed Pharaoh, what he is about to doe.
Genesis 41:26	The seuen good kine are seuen yeres, and the seuen good eares are seuen yeeres: this is one dreame.
Genesis 41:27	Likewise the seuen thinne and euilfauoured kine, that came out after them, are seuen yeeres: and the seuen emptie eares blasted with the East winde, are seuen yeeres of famine.
Genesis 41:28	This is the thing which I haue saide vnto Pharaoh, that God hath shewed vnto Pharaoh, what he is about to doe.
Genesis 41:29	Beholde, there come seuen yeeres of great plentie in all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:30	Againe, there shall arise after them seuen yeeres of famine, so that all the plentie shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt, and the famine shall consume the land:
Genesis 41:31	Neither shall the plentie bee knowen in the land, by reason of this famine that shall come after: for it shalbe exceeding great.
Genesis 41:32	And therefore the dreame was doubled vnto Pharaoh the second time, because the thing is established by God, and God hasteth to performe it.
Genesis 41:33	Nowe therefore let Pharaoh prouide for a man of vnderstanding and wisedome, and set him ouer the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:34	Let Pharaoh make and appoynt officers ouer the lande, and take vp the fift part of the land of Egypt in the seuen plenteous yeeres.
Genesis 41:35	Also let them gather all the foode of these good yeeres that come, and lay vp corne vnder the hand of Pharaoh for foode, in the cities, and let them keepe it.
Genesis 41:36	So the foode shall be for the prouision of the lande, against the seuen yeeres of famine, which shalbe in the lande of Egypt, that the land perish not by famine.
Genesis 41:37	And the saying pleased Pharaoh and all his seruants.
Genesis 41:38	Then saide Pharaoh vnto his seruants, Can we finde such a man as this, in whom is the Spirit of God?
Genesis 41:39	The Pharaoh said to Ioseph, For as much as God hath shewed thee all this, there is no man of vnderstanding, or of wisedome like vnto thee.
Genesis 41:40	Thou shalt be ouer mine house, and at thy word shall all my people be armed, onely in the kings throne will I be aboue thee.
Genesis 41:41	Moreouer Pharaoh said to Ioseph, Behold, I haue set thee ouer all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:42	And Pharaoh tooke off his ring from his hand, and put it vpon Iosephs hand, and arayed him in garments of fine linnen, and put a golden cheyne about his necke.
Genesis 41:43	So he set him vpon the best charet that hee had, saue one: and they cryed before him, Abrech, and placed him ouer all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:44	Againe Pharaoh saide vnto Ioseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift vp his hand or his foote in all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:45	And Pharaoh called Iosephs name Zaphnath-paaneah: and he gaue him to wife Asenath the daughter of Poti-pherah prince of On. then went Ioseph abrode in the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:46	And Ioseph was thirtie yeere old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt: and Ioseph departing from the presence of Pharaoh, went throughout all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:47	And in the seuen plenteous yeres the earth brought foorth store.
Genesis 41:48	And hee gathered vp all the foode of the seuen plenteous yeeres, which were in the lande of Egypt, and layde vp foode in the cities: the foode of the fielde, that was round about euery citie, layde he vp in the same.
Genesis 41:49	So Ioseph gathered wheate, like vnto the sand of the sea in multitude out of measure, vntill he left numbring: for it was without number.
Genesis 41:50	Now vnto Ioseph were borne two sonnes (before the yeeres of famine came) which Asenath the daughter of Poti-pherah prince of On bare vnto him.
Genesis 41:51	And Ioseph called the name of the first borne Manasseh: for God, said he, hath made me forget all my labour and al my fathers houshold.
Genesis 41:52	Also hee called the name of the second, Ephraim: For God, sayde he hath made me fruitfull in the land of mine affliction.
Genesis 41:53	So the seuen yeeres of the plentie that was in the land of Egypt were ended.
Genesis 41:54	Then began the seuen yeeres of famine to come, according as Ioseph had saide: and the famine was in all landes, but in all the land of Egypt was bread.
Genesis 41:55	At the length all the lande of Egypt was affamished, and the people cryed to Pharaoh for bread. And Pharaoh said vnto all the Egyptians, Goe to Ioseph: what he sayth to you, doe ye.
Genesis 41:56	When the famine was vpon all the land, Ioseph opened all places, wherein the store was, and solde vnto the Egyptians: for the famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:57	And all countries came to Egypt to bye corne of Ioseph, because the famine was sore in all landes.
Genesis 42:1	Then Iaakob saw that there was foode in Egypt, and Iaakob said vnto his sonnes, Why gaze ye one vpon an other?
Genesis 42:2	And he said, Behold, I haue heard that there is foode in Egypt, Get you downe thither, and bie vs foode thence, that we may liue and not die.
Genesis 42:3	So went Iosephs ten brethren downe to bye corne of the Egyptians.
Genesis 42:4	But Beniamin Iosephs brother woulde not Iaakob send with his brethren: for he saide, Least death should befall him.
Genesis 42:5	And the sonnes of Israel came to bye foode among them that came: for there was famine in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 42:6	Now Ioseph was gouerner of the land, who solde to all the people of the lande: then Iosephs brethren came, and bowed their face to the groud before him.
Genesis 42:7	And when Ioseph sawe his brethren, hee knewe them, and made himselfe straunge toward them, and spake to them roughly, and saide vnto them, Whence come yee? Who answered, Out of the land of Canaan, to bye vitaile.
Genesis 42:8	(Now Ioseph knewe his brethren, but they knew not him.
Genesis 42:9	And Ioseph remembred the dreames, which he dreamed of them) and he sayde vnto them, Ye are spies, and are come to see the weaknesse of the land.
Genesis 42:10	But they sayde vnto him, Nay, my lorde, but to bye vitayle thy seruants are come.
Genesis 42:11	Wee are all one mans sonnes: wee meane truely, and thy seruants are no spies.
Genesis 42:12	But he saide vnto them, Nay, but yee are come to see the weakenes of the land.
Genesis 42:13	And they said, We thy seruants are twelue brethren, the sonnes of one man in the lande of Canaan: and beholde, the yongest is this day with our father, and one is not.
Genesis 42:14	Againe Ioseph sayde vnto them, This is it that I spake vnto you, saying, Ye are spies.
Genesis 42:15	Hereby ye shall be proued: by the life of Pharaoh, ye shall not goe hence, except your yongest brother come hither.
Genesis 42:16	Send one of you which may fet your brother, and ye shall be kept in prison, that your words may be proued, whether there bee trueth in you: or els by the life of Pharaoh ye are but spies.
Genesis 42:17	So he put them in warde three dayes.
Genesis 42:18	Then Ioseph said vnto them the third day, This do, and liue: for I feare God.
Genesis 42:19	If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bounde in your prison house, and goe ye, carie foode for the famine of your houses:
Genesis 42:20	But bring your yonger brother vnto me, that your wordes may be tried, and that ye dye not: and they did so.
Genesis 42:21	And they said one to another, We haue verily sinned against our brother, in that we sawe the anguish of his soule, when he besought vs, and we would not heare him: therefore is this trouble come vpon vs.
Genesis 42:22	And Reuben answered them, saying, Warned I not you, saying, Sinne not against the childe, and ye would not heare? and lo, his blood is now required.
Genesis 42:23	(And they were not aware that Ioseph vnderstoode them: for he spake vnto them by an interpreter.)
Genesis 42:24	Then he turned from them, and wept, and turned to them againe, and communed with them, and tooke Simeon from among them, and bounde him before their eyes.
Genesis 42:25	So Ioseph commanded that they should fill their sackes with wheate, and put euery mans money againe in his sacke, and giue them vitaile for the iourney: and thus did he vnto them.
Genesis 42:26	And they layed their vitaile vpon their asses, and departed thence.
Genesis 42:27	And as one of them opened his sacke for to giue his asse prouender in the ynne, he espyed his money: for lo, it was in his sackes mouth.
Genesis 42:28	Then he sayde vnto his brethren, My money is restored: for loe, it is euen in my sacke. And their heart fayled them, and they were astonished, and sayde one to another, What is this, that God hath done vnto vs?
Genesis 42:29	And they came vnto Iaakob their father vnto the lande of Canaan, and tolde him all that had befallen them, saying,
Genesis 42:30	The man, who is Lord of the lande, spake roughly to vs, and put vs in prison as spyes of the countrey.
Genesis 42:31	And we sayd vnto him, We are true men, and are no spies.
Genesis 42:32	We be twelue brethren, sonnes of our father: one is not, and the yongest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 42:33	Then the Lord of the countrey sayde vnto vs, Hereby shall I knowe if ye be true men: Leaue one of your brethren with me, and take foode for the famine of your houses and depart,
Genesis 42:34	And bring your yongest brother vnto me, that I may knowe that ye are no spies, but true men: so will I deliuer you your brother, and yee shall occupie in the land.
Genesis 42:35	And as they emptied their sacks, behold, euery mans bundel of money was in his sacke: and when they and their father sawe the bundels of their money, they were afrayde.
Genesis 42:36	Then Iaakob their father said to them, Ye haue robbed me of my children: Ioseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Beniamin: all these things are against me.
Genesis 42:37	Then Reuben answered his father, saying, Slay my two sonnes, if I bring him not to thee againe: deliuer him to mine hand, and I will bring him to thee againe.
Genesis 42:38	But he said, My sonne shall not go downe with you: for his brother is dead, and he is left alone: if death come vnto him by the way which ye goe, then ye shall bring my gray head with sorow vnto the graue.
Genesis 43:1	Now great famine was in the land.
Genesis 43:2	And when they had eaten vp the vitaile, which they had brought from Egypt, their father sayd vnto them, Turne againe, and bye vs a little foode.
Genesis 43:3	And Iudah answered him, saying, The man charged vs by an othe, saying, Neuer see my face, except your brother be with you.
Genesis 43:4	If thou wilt sende our brother with vs, we will goe downe, and bye thee foode:
Genesis 43:5	But if thou wilt not send him, we wil not go downe: for the man said vnto vs, Looke me not in the face, except your brother be with you.
Genesis 43:6	And Israel sayd, Wherefore delt ye so euill with me, as to tell the man, whether ye had yet a brother or no?
Genesis 43:7	And they answered, The man asked straitly of our selues and of our kinred, saying, Is your father yet aliue? haue ye any brother? And wee tolde him according to these wordes: could we knowe certainely that he would say, Bring your brother downe?
Genesis 43:8	Then sayde Iudah to Israel his father, Send the boy with mee, that we may rise and goe, and that we may liue and not dye, both we, and thou, and our children.
Genesis 43:9	I wil be suertie for him: of mine hand shalt thou require him. If I bring him not to thee, and set him before thee, then let me beare the blame for euer.
Genesis 43:10	For except we had made this tarying, doutlesse by this we had returned the second time.
Genesis 43:11	Then their father Israel sayd vnto them, If it must needes be so now, do thus: take of the best fruites of the lande in your vessels, and bring the man a present, a little rosen, and a little hony, spices and myrrhe, nuttes, and almondes:
Genesis 43:12	And take double money in your hande, and the money, that was brought againe in your sackes mouthes: cary it againe in your hand, lest it were some ouersight.
Genesis 43:13	Take also your brother and arise, and go againe to the man.
Genesis 43:14	And God almightie giue you mercie in the sight of the man, that hee may deliuer you your other brother, and Beniamin: but I shall be robbed of my childe, as I haue bene.
Genesis 43:15	Thus the men tooke this present, and tooke twise so much money in their hande with Beniamin, and rose vp, and went downe to Egypt and stoode before Ioseph.
Genesis 43:16	And whe Ioseph saw Beniamin with them, he sayde to his stewarde, Bring these men home and kill meate, and make ready: for the men shall eate with me at noone.
Genesis 43:17	And the man did as Ioseph bad, and brought the men vnto Iosephs house.
Genesis 43:18	Nowe when the men were brought into Iosephs house, they were afrayd, and sayd, Because of the money, that came in our sackes mouthes at the first time, are we brought, that hee may picke a quarrell against vs, and lay some thing to our charge, and bring vs in bondage and our asses.
Genesis 43:19	Therefore came they to Iosephs stewarde, and communed with him at the doore of ye house.
Genesis 43:20	And said, Oh syr, we came in deede down hither at the first time to bye foode,
Genesis 43:21	And as wee came to an ynne and opened our sackes, behold, euery mans money was in his sackes mouth, euen our money in full weight, but we haue brought it againe in our handes.
Genesis 43:22	Also other money haue we brought in our handes to bye foode, but we cannot tell, who put our money in our sackes.
Genesis 43:23	And he said, Peace be vnto you, feare not: your God and the God of your father hath giuen you that treasure in your sackes, I had your money: and he brought forth Simeon to them.
Genesis 43:24	So the man led them into Iosephs house, and gaue them water to wash their feete, and gaue their asses prouender.
Genesis 43:25	And they made ready their present against Ioseph came at noone, (for they heard say, that they should eate bread there)
Genesis 43:26	When Ioseph came home, they brought the present into the house to him, which was in their handes, and bowed downe to the grounde before him.
Genesis 43:27	And he asked them of their prosperitie, and sayd, Is your father the olde man, of whome ye tolde me, in good health? is he yet aliue?
Genesis 43:28	Who answered, Thy seruant our father is in good health, he is yet aliue: and they bowed downe, and made obeysance.
Genesis 43:29	And he lifting vp his eyes, beheld his brother Beniamin his mothers sonne, and sayde, Is this your yonger brother, of whome ye tolde me? And he said, God be merciful vnto thee, my sone.
Genesis 43:30	And Ioseph made haste (for his affection was inflamed towarde his brother, and sought where to weepe) and entred into his chamber, and wept there.
Genesis 43:31	Afterward he washed his face, and came out, and refrained himselfe, and sayd, Set on meate.
Genesis 43:32	And they prepared for him by himselfe, and for them by themselues, and for the Egyptians, which did eate with him, by themselues, because the Egyptians might not eate bread with the Ebrewes: for that was an abomination vnto the Egyptians.
Genesis 43:33	So they sate before him: the eldest according vnto his age, and the yongest according vnto his youth. and the men marueiled among themselues.
Genesis 43:34	And they tooke meases from before him, and sent to them: but Beniamins mease was fiue times so much as any of theirs: and they drunke, and had of the best drinke with him.
Genesis 44:1	Afterward he commanded his steward, saying, Fill the mens sackes with foode, as much as they can carry, and put euery mans money in his sackes mouth.
Genesis 44:2	And put my cup, I meane the siluer cup, in the sackes mouth of the yongest, and his corne money. And he did according to the commandement that Ioseph gaue him.
Genesis 44:3	And in the morning the men were sent away, they, and their asses.
Genesis 44:4	And when they went out of the citie not farre off, Ioseph sayd to his stewarde, Vp, follow after the men: and when thou doest ouertake them, say vnto them, Wherefore haue ye rewarded euill for good?
Genesis 44:5	Is that not the cuppe, wherein my Lord drinketh? and in the which he doeth deuine and prophecie? ye haue done euill in so doing.
Genesis 44:6	And when he ouertooke them, he sayde those wordes vnto them.
Genesis 44:7	And they answered him, Wherefore sayeth my lorde such wordes? God forbid that thy seruants should do such a thing.
Genesis 44:8	Behold, the money which we found in our sackes mouthes, wee brought againe to thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steale out of thy lordes house siluer or golde?
Genesis 44:9	With whomesoeuer of thy seruants it bee found, let him dye, and we also will be my lordes bondmen.
Genesis 44:10	And he said, Now then let it be according vnto your wordes: he with whome it is found, shall be my seruant, and ye shalbe blamelesse.
Genesis 44:11	Then at once euery man tooke downe his sacke to the grounde, and euery one opened his sacke.
Genesis 44:12	And he searched, and began at the eldest and left at the yongest: and the cuppe was found in Beniamins sacke.
Genesis 44:13	Then they rent their clothes, and laded euery man his asse, and went againe into the citie.
Genesis 44:14	So Iudah and his brethren came to Iosephs house (for he was yet there) and they fel before him on the ground.
Genesis 44:15	Then Ioseph sayd vnto them, What acte is this, which ye haue done? know ye not that such a man as I, can deuine and prophecie?
Genesis 44:16	Then sayd Iudah, What shall we say vnto my lord? what shall we speake? and howe can we iustifie our selues? God hath found out the wickednesse of thy seruants: beholde, we are seruants to my Lord, both wee, and he, with whome the cuppe is founde.
Genesis 44:17	But he answered, God forbid, that I should doe so, but the man, with whome the cuppe is founde, he shalbe my seruant, and go ye in peace vnto your father.
Genesis 44:18	Then Iudah drewe neere vnto him, and sayde, O my Lord, let thy seruant nowe speake a worde in my lordes eares, and let not thy wrath be kindled against thy seruant: for thou art euen as Pharaoh.
Genesis 44:19	My Lord asked his seruants, saying, Haue ye a father, or a brother?
Genesis 44:20	And we answered my Lord, We haue a father that is olde, and a young childe, which he begate in his age: and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loueth him.
Genesis 44:21	Now thou saidest vnto thy seruants, Bring him vnto me, that I may set mine eye vpon him.
Genesis 44:22	And we answered my lord, The childe can not depart from his father: for if he leaue his father, his father would die.
Genesis 44:23	Then saydest thou vnto thy seruants, Except your yonger brother come downe with you, looke in my face no more.
Genesis 44:24	So when we came vnto thy seruant our father, and shewed him what my lord had sayd,
Genesis 44:25	And our father sayde vnto vs, Goe againe, bye vs a litle foode,
Genesis 44:26	Then we answered, We can not go downe: but if our yongest brother go with vs, then will we go downe: for we may not see the mans face, except our yongest brother be with vs.
Genesis 44:27	Then thy seruant my father sayde vnto vs, Ye knowe that my wife bare me two sonnes,
Genesis 44:28	And the one went out from me, and I said, Of a suretie he is torne in pieces, and I sawe him not since.
Genesis 44:29	Nowe yee take this also away from me: if death take him, then yee shall bring my graye head in sorowe to the graue.
Genesis 44:30	Nowe therefore, when I come to thy seruant my father, and the childe be not with vs (seeing that his life dependeth on the childes life)
Genesis 44:31	Then when hee shall see that the childe is not come, he will die: so shall thy seruants bring the graye head of thy seruant our father with sorowe to the graue.
Genesis 44:32	Doubtlesse thy seruant became suertie for the childe to my father, and said, If I bring him not vnto thee againe, then I will beare the blame vnto my father for euer.
Genesis 44:33	Nowe therefore, I pray thee, let me thy seruant bide for the childe, as a seruant to my Lord, and let the childe go vp with his brethren.
Genesis 44:34	For how can I go vp to my father, if the childe be not with me, vnlesse I woulde see the euil that shall come on my father?
Genesis 45:1	Then Ioseph could not refraine him selfe before all that stoode by him, but hee cryed, Haue forth euery man from me. And there taryed not one with him, while Ioseph vttered himselfe vnto his brethren.
Genesis 45:2	And hee wept and cried, so that the Egyptians heard: the house of Pharaoh heard also.
Genesis 45:3	Then Ioseph sayde to his brethren, I am Ioseph: doeth my father yet liue? But his brethren coulde not answere him, for they were astonished at his presence.
Genesis 45:4	Againe, Ioseph sayde to his brethren, Come neere, I pray you, to mee. And they came neere. And he sayde, I am Ioseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt.
Genesis 45:5	Nowe therefore be not sad, neither grieued with your selues, that ye sold me hither: for God did send me before you for your preseruation.
Genesis 45:6	For nowe two yeeres of famine haue bene through ye land, and fiue yeeres are behind, wherein neither shalbe earing nor haruest.
Genesis 45:7	Wherefore God sent me before you to preserue your posteritie in this land, and to saue you aliue by a great deliuerance.
Genesis 45:8	Now the you sent not me hither, but God, who hath made mee a father vnto Pharaoh, and lorde of all his house, and ruler throughout all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 45:9	Haste you and go vp to my father, and tel him, Thus saieth thy sonne Ioseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come downe to me, tary not.
Genesis 45:10	And thou shalt dwel in ye land of Goshen, and shalt be neere me, thou and thy children, and thy childrens children, and thy sheepe, and thy beastes, and all that thou hast.
Genesis 45:11	Also I will nourish thee there (for yet remaine fiue yeeres of famine) lest thou perish through pouertie, thou and thy houshold, and all that thou hast.
Genesis 45:12	And behold, your eyes doe see, and the eyes of my brother Beniamin, that my mouth speaketh to you.
Genesis 45:13	Therefore tel my father of al mine honour in Egypt, and of all that ye haue seene, and make haste, and bring my father hither.
Genesis 45:14	Then hee fell on his brother Beniamins necke, and wept, and Beniamin wept on his necke.
Genesis 45:15	Moreouer, he kissed all his brethren, and wept vpon them: and afterwarde his brethren talked with him.
Genesis 45:16	And the tidinges came vnto Pharaohs house, so that they said, Iosephs brethre are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and his seruants.
Genesis 45:17	Then Pharaoh said vnto Ioseph, Say to thy brethren, This doe ye, lade your beastes and depart, go to the land of Canaan,
Genesis 45:18	And take your father, and your houshoulds, and come to me, and I wil giue you the best of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eate of the fat of the land.
Genesis 45:19	And I commaund thee, Thus doe ye, take you charets out of the lande of Egypt for your children, and for your wiues, and bring your father and come.
Genesis 45:20	Also regarde not your stuffe: for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours.
Genesis 45:21	And the children of Israel did so: and Ioseph gaue them charets according to the commandement of Pharaoh: hee gaue them vitaile also for the iourney.
Genesis 45:22	He gaue them all, none except, change of raiment: but vnto Beniamin he gaue three hundreth pieces of siluer, and fiue sutes of raiment.
Genesis 45:23	And vnto his father likewise hee sent ten hee asses laden with the best things of Egypt, and ten shee asses laden with wheate, and bread and meate for his father by the way.
Genesis 45:24	So sent he his brethren away, and they departed: and he sayde vnto them, Fall not out by the way.
Genesis 45:25	Then they went vp from Egypt, and came vnto the land of Canaan vnto Iaakob their father,
Genesis 45:26	And tolde him, saying, Ioseph is yet aliue, and he also is gouernour ouer all the lande of Egypt, and Iaakobs heart failed: for he beleeued them not.
Genesis 45:27	And they told him al the words of Ioseph, which he had said vnto the: but when he saw the charets, which Ioseph had sent to cary him, then the spirit of Iaakob their father reuiued.
Genesis 45:28	And Israel said, I haue inough: Ioseph my sonne is yet aliue: I will go and see him yer I die.
Genesis 46:1	Then Israel tooke his iourney with all that he had, and came to Beer-sheba, and offered sacrifice vnto the God of his father Izhak.
Genesis 46:2	And God spake vnto Israel in a vision by night, saying, Iaakob, Iaakob. Who answered, I am here.
Genesis 46:3	Then hee sayde, I am God, the God of thy father, feare not to goe downe into Egypt: for I will there make of thee a great nation.
Genesis 46:4	I wil go downe with thee into Egypt, and I will also bring thee vp againe, and Ioseph shall put his hand vpon thine eyes.
Genesis 46:5	Then Iaakob rose vp from Beer-sheba: and the sonnes of Israel caried Iaakob their father, and their children, and their wiues in the charets, which Pharaoh had sent to cary him.
Genesis 46:6	And they tooke their cattell and their goods, which they had gotten in the lande of Canaan, and came into Egypt, both Iaakob and all his seede with him,
Genesis 46:7	His sonnes and his sonnes sonnes with him, his daughters and his sonnes daughters, and al his seede brought he with him into Egypt.
Genesis 46:8	And these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt, euen Iaakob and his sonnes: Reuben, Iaakobs first borne.
Genesis 46:9	And the sonnes of Reuben: Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi.
Genesis 46:10	And the sonnes of Simeon: Iemuel, and Iamin, and Ohad, and Iachin, and Zohar; and Shaul the sonne of a Canaanitish woman.
Genesis 46:11	Also the sonnes of Leui: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
Genesis 46:12	Also the sonnes of Iudah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zerah: (but Er and Onan died in ye land of Canaan) And the sonnes of Pharez were Hezron and Hamul.
Genesis 46:13	Also the sonnes of Issachar: Tola, and Phuuah, and Iob, and Shimron.
Genesis 46:14	Also the sonnes of Zebulun: Sered, and Elon, and Iahleel.
Genesis 46:15	These bee the sonnes of Leah, which shee bare vnto Iaakob in Padan Aram, with his daughter Dinah. All the soules of his sonnes and his daughters were thirtie and three.
Genesis 46:16	Also the sonnes of Gad: Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli.
Genesis 46:17	Also the sonnes of Asher: Iimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah, and Serah their sister. And the sonnes of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel.
Genesis 46:18	These are the children of Zilpah, whome Laban gaue to Leah his daughter: and these shee bare vnto Iaakob, euen sixtene soules.
Genesis 46:19	The sonnes of Rahel Iaakobs wife were Ioseph and Beniamin.
Genesis 46:20	And vnto Ioseph in the lande of Egypt were borne Manasseh, and Ephraim, which Asenath the daughter of Poti-pherah prince of On bare vnto him.
Genesis 46:21	Also the sonnes of Beniamin: Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.
Genesis 46:22	These are the sonnes of Rahel, which were borne vnto Iaakob, fourteene soules in all.
Genesis 46:23	Also the sonnes of Dan: Hushim.
Genesis 46:24	Also the sonnes of Naphtali: Iahzeel, and Guni, and Iezer, and Shillem.
Genesis 46:25	These are the sonnes of Bilhah, which Laban gaue vnto Rahel his daughter, and shee bare these to Iaakob, in all, seuen soules.
Genesis 46:26	Al the soules, that came with Iaakob into Egypt, which came out of his loynes (beside Iaakobs sonnes wiues) were in the whole, three score and sixe soules.
Genesis 46:27	Also the sonnes of Ioseph, which were borne him in Egypt, were two soules: so that al the soules of the house of Iaakob, which came into Egypt, are seuentie.
Genesis 46:28	The he sent Iudah before him vnto Ioseph, to direct his way vnto Goshen, and they came into the land of Goshen.
Genesis 46:29	Then Ioseph made ready his charet and went vp to Goshen to meete Israel his father, and presented himselfe vnto him and fel on his necke, and wept vpon his necke a good while.
Genesis 46:30	And Israel sayde vnto Ioseph, Now let me die, since I haue seene thy face, and that thou art yet aliue.
Genesis 46:31	Then Ioseph said to his brethren, and to his fathers house, I wil go vp and shew Pharaoh, and tell him, My brethren and my fathers house, which were in the land of Canaan, are come vnto me,
Genesis 46:32	And the men are shepheardes, and because they are shepheardes, they haue brought their sheepe and their cattell, and all that they haue.
Genesis 46:33	And if Pharaoh call you, and aske you, What is your trade?
Genesis 46:34	Then ye shall say, Thy seruants are men occupied about cattell, from our childehood euen vnto this time, both we and our fathers: that yee may dwell in the lande of Goshen: for euery sheepe keeper is an abomination vnto the Egyptians.
Genesis 47:1	Then came Ioseph and tolde Pharaoh, and sayde, My father, and my brethren, and their sheepe, and their cattell, and all that they haue, are come out of the land of Canaan, and behold, they are in the land of Goshen.
Genesis 47:2	And Ioseph tooke part of his brethren, euen fiue men, and presented them vnto Pharaoh.
Genesis 47:3	Then Pharaoh said vnto his brethren, What is your trade? And they answered Pharaoh, Thy seruants are shepheards, both we and our fathers.
Genesis 47:4	They sayde moreouer vnto Pharaoh, For to soiourne in ye lande are we come: for thy seruants haue no pasture for their sheepe, so sore is ye famine in the lande of Canaan. Nowe therefore, we pray thee, let thy seruants dwel in the land of Goshen.
Genesis 47:5	Then spake Pharaoh to Ioseph, saying, Thy father and thy brethren are come vnto thee.
Genesis 47:6	The lande of Egypt is before thee: in the best place of the land make thy father and thy brethren dwel: let the dwel in the land of Goshen: and if thou knowest that there be men of actiuitie among them, make them rulers ouer my cattell.
Genesis 47:7	Ioseph also brought Iaakob his father, and set him before Pharaoh. And Iaakob saluted Pharaoh.
Genesis 47:8	Then Pharaoh sayde vnto Iaakob, Howe olde art thou?
Genesis 47:9	And Iaakob sayd vnto Pharaoh, The whole time of my pilgrimage is an hundreth and thirty yeeres: fewe and euill haue the dayes of my life bene, and I haue not attayned vnto the yeeres of the life of my fathers, in the dayes of their pilgrimages.
Genesis 47:10	And Iaakob tooke leaue of Pharaoh, and departed from the presence of Pharaoh.
Genesis 47:11	And Ioseph placed his father, and his brethren, and gaue them possession in the lande of Egypt, in the best of the land, euen in the lande of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.
Genesis 47:12	And Ioseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and all his fathers houshold with bread, euen to the yong children.
Genesis 47:13	Now there was no bread in all the land: for the famine was exceeding sore: so that the land of Egypt, and the land of Canaan were famished by reason of the famine.
Genesis 47:14	And Ioseph gathered all the money, that was found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corne which they bought, and Ioseph layd vp the money in Pharaohs house.
Genesis 47:15	So when money fayled in the lande of Egypt, and in the lande of Canaan, then all the Egyptians came vnto Ioseph, and sayde, Giue vs bread: for why should we dye before thee? for our money is spent.
Genesis 47:16	Then saide Ioseph, Bring your cattell, and I will giue you for your cattell, if your money be spent.
Genesis 47:17	So they brought their cattell vnto Ioseph, and Ioseph gaue them bread for the horses, and for the flockes of sheepe, and for the heards of cattel, and for the asses: so he fed them with bread for all their cattell that yeere.
Genesis 47:18	But when the yeere was ended, they came vnto him the next yeere, and sayd vnto him, We will not hide from my lord, that since our money is spent, and my lord hath the heards of the cattel, there is nothing left in the sight of my lorde, but our bodies and our ground.
Genesis 47:19	Why shall we perish in thy sight, both we, and our land? bye vs and our land for bread, and we and our land will be bonde to Pharaoh: therefore giue vs seede, that we may liue and not dye, and that the land go not to waste.
Genesis 47:20	So Ioseph bought all the lande of Egypt for Pharaoh: for the Egyptians solde euery man his ground because the famine was sore vpon the: so the land became Pharaohs.
Genesis 47:21	And he remoued the people vnto the cities, from one side of Egypt euen to the other.
Genesis 47:22	Onely the lande of the Priestes bought he not: for the Priestes had an ordinarie of Pharaoh, and they did eate their ordinarie, which Pharaoh gaue them: wherefore they solde not their grounde.
Genesis 47:23	Then Ioseph sayd vnto the people, Behold, I haue bought you this daye, and your lande for Pharaoh: lo, here is seede for you: sowe therefore the grounde.
Genesis 47:24	And of the encrease ye shall giue the fifth part vnto Pharaoh, and foure partes shalbe yours for the seede of the fielde, and for your meate, and for them of your housholdes, and for your children to eate.
Genesis 47:25	Then they answered, Thou hast saued our liues: let vs finde grace in the sight of my Lord, and we will be Pharaohs seruants.
Genesis 47:26	Then Ioseph made it a lawe ouer the land of Egypt vnto this day, that Pharaoh should haue the fift part, except the land of the priests only, which was not Pharaohs.
Genesis 47:27	And Israel dwelt in the lande of Egypt, in the countrey of Goshen: and they had their possessions therein, and grewe and multiplied exceedingly.
Genesis 47:28	Moreouer, Iaakob liued in the lande of Egypt seuenteene yeeres, so that the whole age of Iaakob was an hundreth fourtie and seuen yeere.
Genesis 47:29	Now when the time drewe neere that Israel must dye, he called his sonne Ioseph, and sayde vnto him, If I haue nowe founde grace in thy sight, put thine hand nowe vnder my thigh, and deale mercifully and truely with me: burie me not, I pray thee, in Egypt.
Genesis 47:30	But when I shall sleepe with my fathers, thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury mee in their buryall. And he answered, I will doe as thou hast sayde.
Genesis 47:31	The he said, Sweare vnto me. And he sware vnto him. And Israel worshipped towardes the beds head.
Genesis 48:1	Againe after this, one sayd to Ioseph, Loe, thy father is sicke: then hee tooke with him his two sonnes, Manasseh and Ephraim.
Genesis 48:2	Also one told Iaakob, and said, Behold, thy sonne Ioseph is come to thee, and Israel tooke his strength vnto him and sate vpon the bed.
Genesis 48:3	Then Iaakob sayde vnto Ioseph, God almightie appeared vnto me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed me.
Genesis 48:4	And he sayde vnto me, Behold, I wil make thee fruitefull, and will multiplie thee, and will make a great number of people of thee, and will giue this lande vnto thy seede after thee for an euerlasting possession.
Genesis 48:5	And now thy two sonnes, Manasseh and Ephraim, which are borne vnto thee in the lande of Egypt, before I came to thee into Egypt, shall be mine, as Reuben and Simeon are mine.
Genesis 48:6	But the linage, which thou hast begotten after them, shalbe thine: they shall be called after the names of their brethren in their inheritance.
Genesis 48:7	Nowe when I came from Padan, Rahel died vpon mine hande in the lande of Canaan, by the way when there was but halfe a dayes iourney of grounde to come to Ephrath: and I buryed her there in the way to Ephrath: the same is Beth-lehem.
Genesis 48:8	Then Israel beheld Iosephs sonnes and sayd, Whose are these?
Genesis 48:9	And Ioseph sayd vnto his father, They are my sonnes, which God hath giuen mee here. Then he sayd, I pray thee, bring them to me, that I may blesse them:
Genesis 48:10	(For the eyes of Israel were dimme for age, so that hee coulde not well see) Then he caused them to come to him, and he kissed them and embraced them.
Genesis 48:11	And Israel sayde vnto Ioseph, I had not thought to haue seene thy face: yet lo, God hath shewed me also thy seede.
Genesis 48:12	And Ioseph tooke them away from his knees, and did reuerence downe to the ground.
Genesis 48:13	Then tooke Ioseph them both, Ephraim in his right hand towarde Israels left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israels right hand, so he brought them vnto him.
Genesis 48:14	But Israel stretched out his right hand, and layde it on Ephraims head, which was the yonger, and his left hande vpon Manassehs head (directing his handes of purpose) for Manasseh was the elder.
Genesis 48:15	Also he blessed Ioseph and sayde, The God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Izhak did walke, the God, which hath fed me al my life long vnto this day, blesse thee.
Genesis 48:16	The Angel, which hath deliuered me from all euill, blesse the children, and let my name be named vpon them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Izhak, that they may growe as fish into a multitude in the middes of the earth.
Genesis 48:17	But when Ioseph sawe that his father layde his right hande vpon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he stayed his fathers hand to remooue it from Ephraims head to Manassehs head.
Genesis 48:18	And Ioseph sayde vnto his father, Not so, my father, for this is the eldest: put thy right hand vpon his head.
Genesis 48:19	But his father refused, and sayd, I know well, my sonne, I know well: he shalbe also a people, and he shalbe great likewise: but his yonger brother shalbe greater then he, and his seede shall be full of nations.
Genesis 48:20	So he blessed them that day, and sayde, In thee Israel shall blesse, and say, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh. and he set Ephraim before Manasseh.
Genesis 48:21	Then Israel said vnto Ioseph, Behold, I die, and God shall be with you, and bring you againe vnto the land of your fathers.
Genesis 48:22	Moreouer, I haue giuen vnto thee one portion aboue thy brethren, which I gate out of the hand of the Amorite by my sworde and by my bowe.
Genesis 49:1	Then Iaakob called his sonnes, and sayde, Gather your selues together, that I may tell you what shall come to you in the last dayes.
Genesis 49:2	Gather your selues together, and heare, ye sonnes of Iaakob, and hearken vnto Israel your father.
Genesis 49:3	Reuben mine eldest sonne, thou art my might, and the beginning of my strength, the excellencie of dignitie, and the excellencie of power:
Genesis 49:4	Thou wast light as water: thou shalt not be excellent, because thou wentest vp to thy fathers bed: then diddest thou defile my bed, thy dignitie is gone.
Genesis 49:5	Simeon and Leui, brethren in euill, the instruments of crueltie are in their habitations.
Genesis 49:6	Into their secret let not my soule come: my glory, be not thou ioyned with their assembly: for in their wrath they slew a man, and in their selfe will they digged downe a wall.
Genesis 49:7	Cursed be their wrath, for it was fierce, and their rage, for it was cruell: I will deuide them in Iaakob, and scatter them in Israel.
Genesis 49:8	Thou Iudah, thy brethre shall praise thee: thine hande shalbe in the necke of thine enemies: thy fathers sonnes shall bowe downe vnto thee.
Genesis 49:9	Iudah, as a Lions whelpe shalt thou come vp from the spoyle, my sonne. He shall lye downe and couche as a Lion, and as a Lionesse: Who shall stirre him vp?
Genesis 49:10	The scepter shall not depart from Iudah, nor a Lawegiuer from betweene his feete, vntill Shiloh come, and the people shall be gathered vnto him.
Genesis 49:11	He shall binde his Asse foale vnto ye vine, and his Asses colte vnto the best vine. hee shall wash his garment in wine, and his cloke in the blood of grapes.
Genesis 49:12	His eyes shalbe red with wine, and his teeth white with milke.
Genesis 49:13	Zebulun shall dwell by the sea side, and he shalbe an hauen for shippes: and his border shalbe vnto Zidon.
Genesis 49:14	Issachar shalbe a strong asse, couching downe betweene two burdens:
Genesis 49:15	And he shall see that rest is good, and that the land is pleasant, and he shall bow his shoulder to beare, and shalbe subiect vnto tribute.
Genesis 49:16	Dan shall iudge his people as one of the tribes of Israel.
Genesis 49:17	Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder by the path, byting the horse heeles, so that his rider shall fall backward.
Genesis 49:18	O Lord, I haue waited for thy saluation.
Genesis 49:19	Gad, an hoste of men shall ouercome him, but he shall ouercome at the last.
Genesis 49:20	Concerning Asher, his bread shalbe fat, and he shall giue pleasures for a king.
Genesis 49:21	Naphtali shalbe a hinde let goe, giuing goodly wordes.
Genesis 49:22	Ioseph shalbe a fruitefull bough, euen a fruitful bough by the well side: the small boughs shall runne vpon the wall.
Genesis 49:23	And the archers grieued him, and shotte against him and hated him.
Genesis 49:24	But his bowe abode strong, and the hands of his armes were strengthened, by the handes of the mighty God of Iaakob, of whom was the feeder appointed, by the stone of Israel,
Genesis 49:25	Euen by the God of thy father, who shall helpe thee, and by the almightie, who shall blesse thee with heauenly blessinges from aboue, with blessings of the deepe, that lyeth beneath, with blessings of the brestes, and of the wombe.
Genesis 49:26	The blessings of thy father shalbe stronger then the blessings of mine elders: vnto the ende of the hilles of the worlde they shall be on the head of Ioseph, and on the top of the head of him that was separate from his brethren.
Genesis 49:27	Beniamin shall rauine as a wolfe: in the morning he shall deuoure the pray, and at night he shall deuide the spoyle.
Genesis 49:28	All these are the twelue tribes of Israel, and thus their father spake vnto them, and blessed them: euery one of them blessed hee with a seuerall blessing.
Genesis 49:29	And he charged them and sayd vnto them, I am ready to be gathered vnto my people: burie mee with my fathers in the caue, that is in the fielde of Ephron the Hittite,
Genesis 49:30	In the caue that is in the field of Machpelah besides Mamre in the land of Canaan: which caue Abraham bought with the fielde of Ephron the Hittite for a possession to burie in.
Genesis 49:31	There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife: there they buryed Izhak and Rebekah his wife: and there I buried Leah.
Genesis 49:32	The purchase of the fielde and the caue that is therein, was bought of the children of Heth.
Genesis 49:33	Thus Iaakob made an end of giuing charge to his sonnes, and plucked vp his feete into the bed and gaue vp the ghost, and was gathered to his people.
Genesis 50:1	Then Ioseph fell vpon his fathers face and wept vpon him, and kissed him.
Genesis 50:2	And Ioseph commanded his seruantes the physicions, to enbaume his father, and the physicions enbaumed Israel.
Genesis 50:3	So fourtie dayes were accomplished (for so long did the dayes of them that were enbaumed last) and the Egyptians bewayled him seuentie dayes.
Genesis 50:4	And when the dayes of his mourning were past, Ioseph spake to the house of Pharaoh, saying, If I haue nowe found fauour in your eyes, speake, I pray you, in the eares of Pharaoh, and say,
Genesis 50:5	My father made me sweare, saying, Loe, I die, bury me in my graue, which I haue made me in the land of Canaan: now therefore let me go, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I wil come againe.
Genesis 50:6	Then Pharaoh said, Goe vp and bury thy father, as he made thee to sweare.
Genesis 50:7	So Ioseph went vp to bury his father, and with him went all the seruants of Pharaoh, both the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt.
Genesis 50:8	Likewise all the house of Ioseph, and his brethren, and his fathers house: onely their children, and their sheepe, and their cattell left they in the land of Goshen.
Genesis 50:9	And there went vp with him both charets and horsemen: and they were an exceeding great company.
Genesis 50:10	And they came to Goren Atad, which is beyond Iorden, and there they made a great and exceeding sore lamentation: and he mourned for his father seuen dayes.
Genesis 50:11	And when the Canaanites the inhabitants of the lande sawe the mourning in Goren Atad, they sayde, This is a great mourning vnto the Egyptians: wherefore the name thereof was called Abel Mizraim, which is beyond Iorden.
Genesis 50:12	So his sonnes did vnto him, according as he had commanded them:
Genesis 50:13	For his sonnes caried him into the lande of Canaan, and buried him in the caue of the fielde of Machpelah, which caue Abraham bought with the fielde, to be a place to bury in, of Ephron the Hittite besides Mamre.
Genesis 50:14	Then Ioseph returned into Egypt, he and his brethren, and al that went vp with him to bury his father, after that he had buried his father.
Genesis 50:15	And when Iosephs brethren saw that their father was dead, they sayde, It may be that Ioseph will hate vs, and will pay vs againe all the euill, which we did vnto him.
Genesis 50:16	Therefore they sent vnto Ioseph, saying, Thy father commanded before his death, saying,
Genesis 50:17	Thus shall ye say vnto Ioseph, Forgiue now, I pray thee, the trespasse of thy brethren, and their sinne: for they rewarded thee euil. And nowe, we pray thee, forgiue the trespasse of the seruants of thy fathers God. And Ioseph wept, when they spake vnto him.
Genesis 50:18	Also his brethren came vnto him, and fell downe before his face, and sayde, Beholde, we be thy seruants.
Genesis 50:19	To whome Ioseph sayde, Feare not: for am not I vnder God?
Genesis 50:20	When ye thought euill against mee, God disposed it to good, that he might bring to passe, as it is this day, and saue much people aliue.
Genesis 50:21	Feare not nowe therefore, I will nourish you, and your children: and hee comforted them, and spake kindly vnto them.
Genesis 50:22	So Ioseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his fathers house: and Ioseph liued an hundreth and tenne yeere.
Genesis 50:23	And Ioseph saw Ephraims children, euen vnto the third generation: also the sonnes of Machir the sonne of Manasseh were brought vp on Iosephs knees.
Genesis 50:24	And Ioseph sayd vnto his brethren, I am ready to dye, and God will surely visite you, and bring you out of this land, vnto ye land which hee sware vnto Abraham, vnto Izhak, and vnto Iaakob.
Genesis 50:25	And Ioseph tooke an othe of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visite you, and ye shall cary my bones hence.
Genesis 50:26	So Ioseph died, when he was an hundreth and ten yere olde: and they enbaumed him and put him in a chest in Egypt.

===== BOOK: Habakkuk =====
Habakkuk 1:1	The burden, which Habakkuk the Prophet did see.
Habakkuk 1:2	O Lord, howe long shall I crye, and thou wilt not heare! euen crye out vnto thee for violence, and thou wilt not helpe!
Habakkuk 1:3	Why doest thou shewe mee iniquitie, and cause me to beholde sorowe? for spoyling, and violence are before me: and there are that rayse vp strife and contention.
Habakkuk 1:4	Therefore the Lawe is dissolued, and iudgement doeth neuer go forth: for the wicked doeth compasse about the righteous: therefore wrong iudgement proceedeth.
Habakkuk 1:5	Beholde among the heathen, and regarde, and wonder, and maruaile: for I will worke a worke in your dayes: yee will not beleeue it, though it be tolde you.
Habakkuk 1:6	For lo, I raise vp the Caldeans, that bitter and furious nation, which shall goe vpon the breadth of the lande to possesse the dwelling places, that are not theirs.
Habakkuk 1:7	They are terrible and fearefull: their iudgement and their dignitie shall proceede of theselues.
Habakkuk 1:8	Their horses also are swifter then the leopards, and are more fierce then the wolues in the euening: and their horsemen are many: and their horsemen shall come from farre: they shall flie as the eagle hasting to meate.
Habakkuk 1:9	They come all to spoyle: before their faces shalbe an Eastwinde, and they shall gather the captiuitie, as the sand.
Habakkuk 1:10	And they shall mocke the Kings, and the princes shalbe a skorne vnto them: they shall deride euery strong holde: for they shall gather dust, and take it.
Habakkuk 1:11	Then shall they take a courage, and transgresse and doe wickedly, imputing this their power vnto their god.
Habakkuk 1:12	Art thou not of olde, O Lord my God, mine holy one? we shall not die: O Lord, thou hast ordeined them for iudgement, and O God, thou hast established them for correction.
Habakkuk 1:13	Thou art of pure eyes, and canst not see euill: thou canst not behold wickednesse: wherefore doest thou looke vpon the transgressors, and holdest thy tongue when the wicked deuoureth the man, that is more righteous then he?
Habakkuk 1:14	And makest men as the fishes of the sea, and as the creeping things, that haue no ruler ouer them.
Habakkuk 1:15	They take vp all with the angle: they catch it in their net, and gather it in their yarne, whereof they reioyce and are glad.
Habakkuk 1:16	Therefore they sacrifice vnto their net, and burne incense vnto their yarne, because by them their portion is fat and their meat plenteous.
Habakkuk 1:17	Shall they therefore stretch out their net and not spare continually to slay the nations?
Habakkuk 2:1	I will stand vpon my watch, and set me vpon the towre, and wil looke and see what he would say vnto mee, and what I shall answere to him that rebuketh me.
Habakkuk 2:2	And the Lord answered me, and sayde, Write the vision, and make it plaine vpon tables, that he may runne that readeth it.
Habakkuk 2:3	For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the last it shall speake, and not lie: though it tarie, waite: for it shall surely come, and shall not stay.
Habakkuk 2:4	Beholde, he that lifteth vp himselfe, his minde is not vpright in him, but the iust shall liue by his fayth,
Habakkuk 2:5	Yea, in deede the proude man is as hee that transgresseth by wine: therefore shall he not endure, because he hath enlarged his desire as the hell, and is as death, and can not be satisfied, but gathereth vnto him all nations, and heapeth vnto him all people.
Habakkuk 2:6	Shall not all these take vp a parable against him, and a tanting prouerbe against him, and say, Ho, he that increaseth that which is not his? howe long? and hee that ladeth himselfe with thicke clay?
Habakkuk 2:7	Shall they not rise vp suddenly, that shall bite thee? and awake, that shall stirre thee? and thou shalt be their praye?
Habakkuk 2:8	Because thou hast spoyled many nations, all the remnant of the people shall spoyle thee, because of mens blood, and for the wrong done in the land, in the citie, and vnto all that dwell therein.
Habakkuk 2:9	Ho, he that coueteth an euil couetousnesse to his house, that he may set his nest on hie, to escape from the power of euil.
Habakkuk 2:10	Thou hast consulted shame to thine owne house, by destroying many people, and hast sinned against thine owne soule.
Habakkuk 2:11	For the stone shall crie out of the wall, and the beame out of the timber shall answere it.
Habakkuk 2:12	Wo vnto him that buildeth a towne with blood, and erecteth a citie by iniquitie.
Habakkuk 2:13	Beholde, is it not of the Lord of hostes that the people shall labour in ye very fire? the people shall euen weary themselues for very vanitie.
Habakkuk 2:14	For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters couer the sea.
Habakkuk 2:15	Wo vnto him that giueth his neighbour drinke: thou ioynest thine heate, and makest him drunken also, that thou mayest see their priuities.
Habakkuk 2:16	Thou art filled with shame for glorie: drinke thou also, and be made naked: the cup of the Lords right hand shall be turned vnto thee, and shamefull spuing shalbe for thy glory.
Habakkuk 2:17	For the crueltie of Lebanon shall couer thee: so shall the spoyle of the beastes, which made them afraide, because of mens blood, and for the wrong done in the land, in the citie, and vnto all that dwell therein.
Habakkuk 2:18	What profiteth the image? for the maker thereof hath made it an image, and a teacher of lies, though he that made it, trust therein, when he maketh dumme idoles.
Habakkuk 2:19	Wo vnto him that sayth to the wood, Awake, and to the dumme stone, Rise vp, it shall teach thee: beholde, it is layde ouer with golde and siluer, and there is no breath in it.
Habakkuk 2:20	But the Lord is in his holy Temple: let all the earth keepe silence before him.
Habakkuk 3:1	A prayer of Habakkuk the Prophet for the ignorances.
Habakkuk 3:2	O Lord, I haue heard thy voyce, and was afraide: O Lord, reuiue thy worke in the mids of the people, in the mids of the yeeres make it knowen: in wrath remember mercy.
Habakkuk 3:3	God commeth from Teman, and the holy one from mount Paran, Selah. His glory couereth the heauens, and the earth is full of his prayse,
Habakkuk 3:4	And his brightnes was as the light: he had hornes comming out of his hands, and there was the hiding of his power.
Habakkuk 3:5	Before him went the pestilence, and burning coales went forth before his feete.
Habakkuk 3:6	He stoode and measured the earth: he behelde and dissolued the nations and the euerlasting mountaines were broken, and the ancient hilles did bowe: his wayes are euerlasting.
Habakkuk 3:7	For his iniquitie I sawe the tentes of Cushan, and the curtaines of the land of Midian did tremble.
Habakkuk 3:8	Was the Lord angry against the riuers? or was thine anger against the floods? or was thy wrath against the sea, that thou diddest ride vpon thine horses? thy charets brought saluation.
Habakkuk 3:9	Thy bowe was manifestly reueiled, and the othes of the tribes were a sure worde, Selah. thou diddest cleaue the earth with riuers.
Habakkuk 3:10	The mountaines sawe thee, and they trembled: the streame of the water passed by: the deepe made a noyse, and lift vp his hand on hie.
Habakkuk 3:11	The sunne and moone stood still in their habitation: at the light of thine arrowes they went, and at the bright shining of thy speares.
Habakkuk 3:12	Thou trodest downe the land in anger, and didest thresh the heathen in displeasure.
Habakkuk 3:13	Thou wentest foorth for the saluation of thy people, euen for saluation with thine Anointed: thou hast wounded the head of the house of the wicked, and discoueredst the foundations vnto the necke, Selah.
Habakkuk 3:14	Thou didest strike thorowe with his owne staues the heades of his villages: they came out as a whirle winde to scatter me: their reioycing was as to deuoure the poore secretly.
Habakkuk 3:15	Thou didest walke in the sea with thine horses vpon the heape of great waters.
Habakkuk 3:16	When I heard, my bellie trembled: my lippes shooke at the voyce: rottennesse entred into my bones, and I trembled in my selfe, that I might rest in the day of trouble: for whe he commeth vp vnto the people, he shall destroy them.
Habakkuk 3:17	For the figtree shall not flourish, neither shall fruite be in the vines: the labour of the oliue shall faile, and the fieldes shall yeelde no meate: the sheepe shalbe cut off from the folde, and there shalbe no bullocke in the stalles.
Habakkuk 3:18	But I will reioyce in the Lord: I will ioy in the God of my saluation.
Habakkuk 3:19	The Lord God is my strength: hee will make my feete like hindes feete, and he will make me to walke vpon mine hie places. To the chiefe singer on Neginothai.

===== BOOK: Haggai =====
Haggai 1:1	In the second yeere of King Darius, in the sixt moneth, the first day of the moneth, came ye worde of the Lord (by the ministery of the Prophet Haggai) vnto Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel, a prince of Iudah, and to Iehoshua the sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest, saying,
Haggai 1:2	Thus speaketh the Lord of hostes, saying, This people say, The time is not yet come, that the Lords House should be builded.
Haggai 1:3	Then came the worde of the Lord by the ministerie of the Prophet Haggai, saying,
Haggai 1:4	Is it time for your selues to dwell in your sieled houses, and this House lie waste?
Haggai 1:5	Now therefore thus saith ye Lord of hostes, Consider your owne wayes in your hearts.
Haggai 1:6	Ye haue sowen much, and bring in litle: ye eate, but ye haue not ynough: ye drinke, but ye are not filled: ye clothe you, but ye be not warme: and he that earneth wages, putteth the wages into a broken bagge.
Haggai 1:7	Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Consider your owne wayes in your hearts.
Haggai 1:8	Goe vp to the mountaine, and bring wood, and build this House, and I wil be fauourable in it, and I will be glorified, sayth the Lord.
Haggai 1:9	Ye looked for much, and lo, it came to litle: and when ye brought it home, I did blowe vpon it. And why, sayth the Lord of hostes? Because of mine House that is waste, and ye runne euery man vnto his owne house.
Haggai 1:10	Therefore the heauen ouer you stayed it selfe from dewe, and the earth stayed her fruite.
Haggai 1:11	And I called for a drought vpon the land, and vpon the mountaines, and vpon the corne, and vpon the wine, and vpon the oyle, vpon all that the ground bringeth foorth: both vpon men and vpon cattell, and vpon all the labour of the hands.
Haggai 1:12	When Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel, and Iehoshua the sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest with all the remnant of the people, heard the voyce of the Lord their God, and the wordes of the Prophet Haggai (as the Lord their God had sent him) then the people did feare before the Lord.
Haggai 1:13	Then spake Haggai the Lords messenger in the Lords message vnto the people, saying, I am with you, sayth the Lord.
Haggai 1:14	And the Lord stirred vp the spirite of Zerubbabel, the sonne of Shealtiel a prince of Iudah, and the spirit of Iehoshua the sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came, and did the worke in the House of the Lord of hostes their God.
Haggai 2:1	In the foure and twentieth day of the sixt moneth, in the second yeere of King Darius,
Haggai 2:2	In the seuenth moneth, in the one and twentieth day of the moneth, came the worde of the Lord by the ministerie of the Prophet Haggai, saying,
Haggai 2:3	Speake nowe to Zerubbabel the sonne of Shealtiel prince of Iudah, and to Iehoshua the sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest, and to the residue of the people, saying,
Haggai 2:4	Who is left among you, that sawe this House in her first glory, and howe doe you see it nowe? is it not in your eyes, in comparison of it as nothing?
Haggai 2:5	Yet nowe be of good courage, O Zerubbabel, sayth the Lord, and be of good comfort, O Iehoshua, sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest: and be strong, all ye people of the land, sayth the Lord, and doe it: for I am with you, sayth the Lord of hostes,
Haggai 2:6	According to the worde that I couenanted with you, when ye came out of Egypt: so my Spirite shall remaine among you, feare ye not.
Haggai 2:7	For thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Yet a litle while, and I will shake the heauens and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land:
Haggai 2:8	And I will moue all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come, and I will fill this House with glory, sayth the Lord of hostes.
Haggai 2:9	The siluer is mine, and the golde is mine, sayth the Lord of hostes.
Haggai 2:10	The glory of this last House shall be greater then the first, sayth the Lord of hostes: and in this place will I giue peace, sayth the Lord of hostes.
Haggai 2:11	In the foure and twentieth day of the ninth moneth, in the second yeere of Darius, came the worde of the Lord vnto the Prophet Haggai, saying,
Haggai 2:12	Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Aske nowe the Priests concerning the Law, and say,
Haggai 2:13	If one beare holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt doe touch the bread, or the potage, or the wine, or oyle, or any meate, shall it be holy? And the Priests answered and said, No.
Haggai 2:14	Then sayde Haggai, If a polluted person touch any of these, shall it be vncleane? And the Priests answered, and sayd, It shalbe vncleane.
Haggai 2:15	Then answered Haggai, and sayd, So is this people, and so is this nation before me, saith the Lord: and so are all the workes of their hands, and that which they offer here, is vncleane.
Haggai 2:16	And nowe, I pray you, consider in your mindes: from this day, and afore, euen afore a stone was layde vpon a stone in the Temple of the Lord:
Haggai 2:17	Before these things were, when one came to an heape of twentie measures, there were but ten: when one came to the wine presse for to drawe out fiftie vessels out of the presse, there were but twentie.
Haggai 2:18	I smote you with blasting, and with mildewe, and with haile, in all the labours of your hands: yet you turned not to me, saith the Lord.
Haggai 2:19	Consider, I pray you, in your mindes, from this day, and afore from the foure and twentieth day of the ninth moneth, euen from the day that the foundation of the Lords Temple was laide: consider it in your mindes.
Haggai 2:20	Is the seede yet in the barne? as yet the vine, and the figtree, and the pomegranate, and the oliue tree hath not brought forth: from this day will I blesse you.
Haggai 2:21	And againe the worde of the Lord came vnto Haggai in the foure and twentieth day of the moneth, saying,
Haggai 2:22	Speake to Zerubbabel the prince of Iudah, and say, I wil shake the heauens and the earth,
Haggai 2:23	And I will ouerthrowe the throne of kingdomes, and I wil destroy the strength of the kingdomes of the heathen, and I wil ouerthrowe the charets, and those that ride in them, and the horse and the riders shall come downe, euery one by the sword of his brother.
Haggai 2:24	In that day, saith the Lord of hostes, will I take thee, O Zerubbabel my seruant, the sonne of Shealtiel, sayth the Lord, and wil make thee as a signet: for I haue chosen thee, sayth the Lord of hostes.

===== BOOK: Hebrews =====
Hebrews 1:1	At sundry times and in diuers maners God spake in the olde time to our fathers by the Prophetes: in these last dayes hee hath spoken vnto vs by his Sonne,
Hebrews 1:2	Whom he hath made heire of al things, by whome also he made the worldes,
Hebrews 1:3	Who being the brightnes of the glory, and the ingraued forme of his person, and bearing vp all things by his mightie worde, hath by himselfe purged our sinnes, and sitteth at the right hand of the Maiestie in the highest places,
Hebrews 1:4	And is made so much more excellent then the Angels, in as much as hee hath obteined a more excellent Name then they.
Hebrews 1:5	For vnto which of the Angels saide he at any time, Thou art my Sonne, this day begate I thee? and againe, I will be his Father, and he shalbe my Sonne?
Hebrews 1:6	And againe, when he bringeth in his first begotten Sonne into the worlde, hee saith, And let all the Angels of God worship him.
Hebrews 1:7	And of the Angels he saith, He maketh the spirites his messengers, and his ministers a flame of fire.
Hebrews 1:8	But vnto the Sonne he saith, O God, thy throne is for euer and euer: the scepter of thy kingdome is a scepter of righteousnes.
Hebrews 1:9	Thou hast loued righteousnes and hated iniquitie. Wherefore God, eue thy God, hath anointed thee with the oyle of gladnes aboue thy fellowes.
Hebrews 1:10	And, Thou, Lord, in the beginning hast established the earth, and the heauens are the workes of thine handes.
Hebrews 1:11	They shall perish, but thou doest remaine: and they all shall waxe olde as doeth a garment.
Hebrews 1:12	And as a vesture shalt thou folde them vp, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy yeeres shall not faile.
Hebrews 1:13	Vnto which also of the Angels saide he at any time, Sit at my right hand, til I make thine enemies thy footestoole?
Hebrews 1:14	Are they not al ministring spirits, sent forth to minister, for their sakes which shalbe heires of saluation?
Hebrews 2:1	Wherefore wee ought diligently to giue heede to the thinges which wee haue heard, lest at any time we runne out.
Hebrews 2:2	For if the worde spoken by Angels was stedfast, and euery transgression, and disobedience receiued a iust recompence of reward,
Hebrews 2:3	How shall we escape, if we neglect so great saluation, which at the first began to be preached by the Lord, and afterward was confirmed vnto vs by them that heard him,
Hebrews 2:4	God bearing witnes thereto, both with signes and wonders, and with diuers miracles, and gifts of the holy Ghost, according to his owne will?
Hebrews 2:5	For he hath not put in subiection vnto the Angels the world to come, whereof we speake.
Hebrews 2:6	But one in a certaine place witnessed, saying, What is man, that thou shouldest bee mindefull of him? or the sonne of man, that thou wouldest consider him?
Hebrews 2:7	Thou madest him a litle inferiour to ye Angels: thou crownedst him with glory and honour, and hast set him aboue the workes of thine hands.
Hebrews 2:8	Thou hast put all things in subiection vnder his feete. And in that he hath put all things in subiection vnder him, he left nothing that should not be subiect vnto him. But we yet see not all things subdued vnto him,
Hebrews 2:9	But we see Iesus crowned with glory and honour, which was made litle inferiour to the Angels, through the suffering of death, that by Gods grace he might taste death for all men.
Hebrews 2:10	For it became him, for whome are all these thinges, and by whome are all these things, seeing that hee brought many children vnto glory, that he should consecrate the Prince of their saluation through afflictions.
Hebrews 2:11	For he that sanctifieth, and they which are sanctified, are all of one: wherefore he is not ashamed to call them brethren,
Hebrews 2:12	Saying, I will declare thy Name vnto my brethren: in the middes of the Church will I sing praises to thee.
Hebrews 2:13	And againe, I will put my trust in him. And againe, Beholde, here am I, and the children which God hath giuen me.
Hebrews 2:14	Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himselfe likewise tooke part with them, that hee might destroye through death, him that had the power of death, that is the deuil,
Hebrews 2:15	And that he might deliuer all them, which for feare of death were all their life time subiect to bondage.
Hebrews 2:16	For he in no sort tooke on him the Angels nature, but hee tooke on him the seede of Abraham.
Hebrews 2:17	Wherefore in all things it behoued him to be made like vnto his brethren, that hee might be mercifull, and a faithfull hie Priest in things concerning God, that he might make reconciliation for the sinnes of the people.
Hebrews 2:18	For in that he suffered, and was tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted.
Hebrews 3:1	Therefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heauenly vocation, consider the Apostle and high Priest of our profession Christ Iesus:
Hebrews 3:2	Who was faithfull to him that hath appointed him, euen as Moses was in al his house.
Hebrews 3:3	For this man is counted worthy of more glory then Moses, inasmuch as he which hath builded the house, hath more honour then the house.
Hebrews 3:4	For euery house is builded of some man, and he that hath built all things, is God.
Hebrews 3:5	Now Moses verely was faithfull in all his house, as a seruant, for a witnesse of the thinges which should be spoken after.
Hebrews 3:6	But Christ is as the Sonne, ouer his owne house, whose house we are, if we holde fast that confidence and that reioycing of that hope vnto the ende.
Hebrews 3:7	Wherefore, as the holy Ghost sayth, To day if ye shall heare his voyce,
Hebrews 3:8	Harden not your hearts, as in the prouocation, according to the day of the tentation in the wildernes,
Hebrews 3:9	Where your fathers tempted me, prooued me, and sawe my workes fourtie yeeres long.
Hebrews 3:10	Wherefore I was grieued with that generation, and sayde, They erre euer in their heart, neither haue they knowen my wayes.
Hebrews 3:11	Therefore I sware in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest.
Hebrews 3:12	Take heede, brethren, least at any time there be in any of you an euill heart, and vnfaithfull, to depart away from the liuing God.
Hebrews 3:13	But exhort one another dayly, while it is called to day, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulnes of sinne.
Hebrews 3:14	For we are made partakers of Christ, if we keepe sure vnto the ende that beginning, wherewith we are vpholden,
Hebrews 3:15	So long as it is sayd, To day if ye heare his voyce, harden not your hearts, as in the prouocation.
Hebrews 3:16	For some when they heard, prouoked him to anger: howbeit, not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.
Hebrews 3:17	But with whome was he displeased fourtie yeeres? Was hee not displeased with them that sinned, whose carkeises fell in the wildernes?
Hebrews 3:18	And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but vnto them that obeyed not?
Hebrews 3:19	So we see that they could not enter in, because of vnbeliefe.
Hebrews 4:1	Let vs feare therefore, least at any time by forsaking the promise of entring into his rest, any of you should seeme to be depriued.
Hebrews 4:2	For vnto vs was the Gospel preached as also vnto them: but the worde that they heard, profited not them, because it was not mixed with faith in those that heard it.
Hebrews 4:3	For we which haue beleeued, doe enter into rest, as he said to the other, As I haue sworne in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest: although the workes were finished from the foundation of the world.
Hebrews 4:4	For he spake in a certaine place of the seuenth day on this wise, And God did rest the seuenth day from all his workes.
Hebrews 4:5	And in this place againe, If they shall enter into my rest.
Hebrews 4:6	Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter thereinto, and they to whom it was first preached, entred not therein for vnbeliefes sake:
Hebrews 4:7	Againe he appointed in Dauid a certaine day, by To day, after so long a time, saying, as it is sayd, This day, if ye heare his voyce, harden not your hearts.
Hebrews 4:8	For if Iesus had giuen them rest, then would he not after this haue spoke of an other day.
Hebrews 4:9	There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God.
Hebrews 4:10	For he that is entred into his rest, hath also ceased from his owne works, as God did from his.
Hebrews 4:11	Let vs studie therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same ensample of disobedience.
Hebrews 4:12	For the worde of God is liuely, and mightie in operation, and sharper then any two edged sword, and entreth through, euen vnto the diuiding asunder of the soule and the spirit, and of the ioints, and the marow, and is a discerner of the thoughtes, and the intents of the heart.
Hebrews 4:13	Neither is there any creature, which is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and open vnto his eyes, with whome we haue to doe.
Hebrews 4:14	Seeing then that wee haue a great hie Priest, which is entred into heauen, euen Iesus the Sonne of God, let vs holde fast our profession.
Hebrews 4:15	For we haue not an hie Priest, which can not be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, but was in all things tempted in like sort, yet without sinne.
Hebrews 4:16	Let vs therefore goe boldly vnto ye throne of grace, that we may receiue mercy, and finde grace to helpe in time of neede.
Hebrews 5:1	For euery hie Priest is taken from among men, and is ordeined for men, in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both giftes and sacrifices for sinnes,
Hebrews 5:2	Which is able sufficiently to haue compassion on them that are ignorant, and that are out of the way, because that hee also is compassed with infirmitie,
Hebrews 5:3	And for the sames sake he is bound to offer for sinnes, as well for his own part, as for ye peoples.
Hebrews 5:4	And no man taketh this honor vnto him selfe, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron.
Hebrews 5:5	So likewise Christ tooke not to him selfe this honour, to be made the hie Priest, but hee that sayd vnto him, Thou art my Sonne, this day begate I thee, gaue it him.
Hebrews 5:6	As he also in another place speaketh, Thou art a Priest for euer, after ye order of Melchi-sedec.
Hebrews 5:7	Who in the dayes of his flesh did offer vp prayers and supplications, with strong crying and teares vnto him, that was able to saue him from death, and was also heard in that which he feared.
Hebrews 5:8	And though he were ye Sonne, yet learned he obedience, by the things which he suffered.
Hebrews 5:9	And being consecrate, was made the authour of eternall saluation vnto all them that obey him:
Hebrews 5:10	And is called of God an hie Priest after the order of Melchi-sedec.
Hebrews 5:11	Of whome we haue many things to say, which are hard to be vttered, because ye are dull of hearing.
Hebrews 5:12	For when as concerning ye time ye ought to be teachers, yet haue ye neede againe that we teach you what are the first principles of the worde of God: and are become such as haue neede of milke, and not of strong meate.
Hebrews 5:13	For euery one that vseth milke, is inexpert in the worde of righteousnes: for he is a babe.
Hebrews 5:14	But strong meate belongeth to them that are of age, which through long custome haue their wits exercised, to discerne both good and euill.
Hebrews 6:1	Therefore, leauing the doctrine of the beginning of Christ, let vs be led forward vnto perfection, not laying againe ye foundation of repetance from dead workes, and of faith toward God,
Hebrews 6:2	Of the doctrine of baptismes, and laying on of hands, and of the resurrection from the dead, and of eternall iudgement.
Hebrews 6:3	And this will we doe if God permit.
Hebrews 6:4	For it is impossible that they which were once lightened, and haue tasted of the heauenly gift, and were made partakers of the holy Ghost,
Hebrews 6:5	And haue tasted of the good word of God, and of the powers of the world to come,
Hebrews 6:6	If they fal away, should be renued againe by repentance: seeing they crucifie againe to themselues the Sonne of God, and make a mocke of him.
Hebrews 6:7	For the earth which drinketh in the raine that commeth oft vpon it, and bringeth foorth herbes meete for them by whome it is dressed, receiueth blessing of God.
Hebrews 6:8	But that which beareth thornes and briars, is reproued, and is neere vnto cursing, whose end is to be burned.
Hebrews 6:9	But beloued, we haue perswaded our selues better things of you, and such as accompany saluation, though we thus speake.
Hebrews 6:10	For God is not vnrighteous, that hee should forget your worke, and labour of loue, which ye shewed toward his Name, in that ye haue ministred vnto the Saints, and yet minister.
Hebrews 6:11	And we desire that euery one of you shew the same diligence, to the full assurance of hope vnto the ende,
Hebrews 6:12	That ye be not slouthfull, but followers of them, which through faith and patience, inherite the promises.
Hebrews 6:13	For when God made the promise to Abraham, because he had no greater to sweare by, he sware by himselfe,
Hebrews 6:14	Saying, Surely I wil aboundantly blesse thee and multiplie thee marueilously.
Hebrews 6:15	And so after that he had taried patiently, he enioyed the promise.
Hebrews 6:16	For men verely sweare by him that is greater then themselues, and an othe for confirmation is among them an ende of all strife.
Hebrews 6:17	So God, willing more aboundantly to shew vnto the heires of promise the stablenes of his counsell, bound himselfe by an othe,
Hebrews 6:18	That by two immutable things, wherein it is vnpossible that God should lye, we might haue strong consolation, which haue our refuge to lay holde vpon that hope that is set before vs,
Hebrews 6:19	Which hope we haue, as an ancre of the soule, both sure and stedfast, and it entreth into that which is within the vaile,
Hebrews 6:20	Whither the forerunner is for vs entred in, euen Iesus that is made an hie Priest for euer after the order of Melchi-sedec.
Hebrews 7:1	For this Melchi-sedec was King of Salem, the Priest of the most high God, who met Abraham, as he returned from the slaughter of the Kings, and blessed him:
Hebrews 7:2	To whom also Abraham gaue the tithe of all things: who first is by interpretation King of righteousnes: after that, he is also King of Salem, that is, King of peace,
Hebrews 7:3	Without father, without mother, without kinred, and hath neither beginning of his dayes, neither ende of life: but is likened vnto the Sonne of God, and continueth a Priest for euer.
Hebrews 7:4	Nowe consider how great this man was, vnto whome euen the Patriarke Abraham gaue the tithe of the spoyles.
Hebrews 7:5	For verely they which are the childre of Leui, which receiue the office of the Priesthode, haue a commandement to take, according to the Law, tithes of the people (that is, of their bethren) though they came out of ye loynes of Abraham.
Hebrews 7:6	But he whose kindred is not couted among them, receiued tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.
Hebrews 7:7	And without all contradiction the lesse is blessed of the greater.
Hebrews 7:8	And here men that die, receiue tithes: but there he receiueth them, of whome it is witnessed, that he liueth.
Hebrews 7:9	And to say as the thing is, Leui also which receiueth tithes, payed tithes in Abraham.
Hebrews 7:10	For hee was yet in the loynes of his father Abraham, when Melchi-sedec met him.
Hebrews 7:11	If therefore perfection had bene by the Priesthoode of the Leuites (for vnder it the Lawe was established to the people) what needed it furthermore, that another Priest should rise after the order of Melchi-sedec, and not to be called after the order of Aaron?
Hebrews 7:12	For if the Priesthood be changed, then of necessitie must there be a change of the Lawe.
Hebrews 7:13	For hee of whome these things are spoken, perteineth vnto another tribe, whereof no man serued at the altar.
Hebrews 7:14	For it is euident, that our Lord sprung out of Iuda, concerning the which tribe Moses spake nothing, touching the Priesthood.
Hebrews 7:15	And it is yet a more euident thing, because that after the similitude of Melchi-sedec, there is risen vp another Priest,
Hebrews 7:16	Which is not made Priest after the Law of the carnal commandement, but after the power of the endlesse life.
Hebrews 7:17	For hee testifieth thus, Thou art a Priest for euer, after the order of Melchi-sedec.
Hebrews 7:18	For the commandement that went afore, is disanulled, because of the weakenes thereof, and vnprofitablenes.
Hebrews 7:19	For the Law made nothing perfite, but the bringing in of a better hope made perfite, whereby we drawe neere vnto God.
Hebrews 7:20	And for as much as it is not without an othe (for these are made Priestes without an othe:
Hebrews 7:21	But this is made with an othe by him that said vnto him, The Lord hath sworne, and will not repent, Thou art a Priest for euer, after the order of Melchi-sedec)
Hebrews 7:22	By so much is Iesus made a suretie of a better Testament.
Hebrews 7:23	And among them many were made Priests, because they were not suffered to endure, by the reason of death.
Hebrews 7:24	But this man, because hee endureth euer, hath a Priesthood, which cannot passe from one to another.
Hebrews 7:25	Wherefore, hee is able also perfectly to saue them that come vnto God by him, seeing he euer liueth, to make intercession for them.
Hebrews 7:26	For such an hie Priest it became vs to haue, which is holy, harmelesse, vndefiled, separate from sinners, and made hier then the heauens:
Hebrews 7:27	Which needeth not daily as those hie Priests to offer vp sacrifice, first for his owne sinnes, and then for the peoples: for that did he once, when he offered vp himselfe.
Hebrews 7:28	For the Law maketh men hie Priestes, which haue infirmitie: but the word of the othe that was since the Lawe, maketh the Sonne, who is consecrated for euermore.
Hebrews 8:1	Nowe of the things which we haue spoken, this is the summe, that wee haue such an hie Priest, that sitteth at the right hand of the throne of the Maiestie in heauens,
Hebrews 8:2	And is a minister of the Sanctuarie, and of that true Tabernacle which the Lord pight, and not man.
Hebrews 8:3	For euery high Priest is ordeined to offer both giftes and sacrifices: wherefore it was of necessitie, that this man shoulde haue somewhat also to offer.
Hebrews 8:4	For he were not a Priest, if he were on the earth, seeing there are Priestes that according to the Lawe offer giftes,
Hebrews 8:5	Who serue vnto the paterne and shadowe of heauenly things, as Moses was warned by God, whe he was about to finish the Tabernacle. See, saide hee, that thou make all thinges according to the paterne, shewed to thee in the mount.
Hebrews 8:6	But nowe our hie Priest hath obteined a more excellent office, in as much as he is the Mediatour of a better Testament, which is established vpon better promises.
Hebrews 8:7	For if that first Testament had bene vnblameable, no place should haue bene sought for the second.
Hebrews 8:8	For in rebuking them he saith, Beholde, the dayes will come, saith the Lord, when I shall make with the house of Israel, and with the house of Iuda a newe Testament:
Hebrews 8:9	Not like the Testament that I made with their fathers, in the day that I tooke them by the hand, to leade them out of the land of Egypt: for they continued not in my Testament, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord.
Hebrews 8:10	For this is the Testament that I will make with the house of Israel, After those dayes, saith the Lord, I will put my Lawes in their minde, and in their heart I will write them, and I wil be their God, and they shalbe my people,
Hebrews 8:11	And they shall not teache euery man his neighbour and euery man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall knowe me, from the least of them to the greatest of them.
Hebrews 8:12	For I will bee mercifull to their vnrighteousnes, and I wil remember their sinnes and their iniquities no more.
Hebrews 8:13	In that he saith a new Testament, he hath abrogate the olde: nowe that which is disanulled and waxed olde, is ready to vanish away.
Hebrews 9:1	Then the first Testament had also ordinances of religion, and a worldly Sanctuarie.
Hebrews 9:2	For the first Tabernacle was made, wherein was the candlesticke, and the table, and the shewebread, which Tabernacle is called the Holy places.
Hebrews 9:3	And after the seconde vaile was the Tabernacle, which is called the Holiest of all,
Hebrews 9:4	Which had the golden censer, and the Arke of the Testament ouerlayde rounde about with golde, wherein the golden pot, which had Manna, was, and Aarons rod that had budded, and the tables of the Testament.
Hebrews 9:5	And ouer the Arke were the glorious Cherubims, shadowing the mercie seat: of which things we will not nowe speake particularly.
Hebrews 9:6	Nowe when these things were thus ordeined, the Priestes went alwayes into the first Tabernacle, and accomplished the seruice.
Hebrews 9:7	But into the second went the hie Priest alone, once euery yere, not without blood which hee offered for himselfe, and for the ignorances of the people.
Hebrews 9:8	Whereby the holy Ghost this signified, that the way into ye Holiest of all was not yet opened, while as yet the first tabernacle was standing,
Hebrews 9:9	Which was a figure for that present time, wherein were offred gifts and sacrifices that could not make holy, concerning the conscience, him that did the seruice,
Hebrews 9:10	Which only stood in meates and drinkes, and diuers washings, and carnal rites, which were inioyned, vntill the time of reformation.
Hebrews 9:11	But Christ being come an high Priest of good things to come, by a greater and a more perfect Tabernacle, not made with handes, that is, not of this building,
Hebrews 9:12	Neither by the blood of goates and calues: but by his owne blood entred he in once vnto the holy place, and obteined eternall redemption for vs.
Hebrews 9:13	For if the blood of bulles and of goates, and the ashes of an heifer, sprinkling them that are vncleane, sanctifieth as touching the purifying of the flesh,
Hebrews 9:14	How much more shall the blood of Christ which through the eternall Spirit offered himselfe without fault to God, purge your conscience from dead workes, to serue the liuing God?
Hebrews 9:15	And for this cause is he the Mediatour of the newe Testament, that through death which was for the redemption of the transgressions that were in the former Testament, they which were called, might receiue the promise of eternall inheritance.
Hebrews 9:16	For where a Testament is, there must be the death of him that made the Testament.
Hebrews 9:17	For the Testament is confirmed when men are dead: for it is yet of no force as long as he that made it, is aliue.
Hebrews 9:18	Wherefore neither was the first ordeined without blood.
Hebrews 9:19	For when Moses had spoken euery precept to the people, according to the Law, he tooke the blood of calues and of goates, with water and purple wooll and hyssope, and sprinckled both the booke, and all the people,
Hebrews 9:20	Saying, This is the blood of the Testament, which God hath appointed vnto you.
Hebrews 9:21	Moreouer, he sprinkled likewise the Tabernacle with blood also, and all the ministring vessels.
Hebrews 9:22	And almost all things are by the Law purged with blood, and without sheading of blood is no remission.
Hebrews 9:23	It was then necessary, that the similitudes of heauenly things should be purified with such things: but the heauenly things them selues are purified with better sacrifices then are these.
Hebrews 9:24	For Christ is not entred into ye holy places that are made with hands, which are similitudes of ye true Sanctuarie: but is entred into very heauen, to appeare now in ye sight of God for vs,
Hebrews 9:25	Not that he should offer himselfe often, as the hie Priest entred into the Holy place euery yeere with other blood,
Hebrews 9:26	(For then must he haue often suffred since the foundation of the world) but now in the end of the world hath he bene made manifest, once to put away sinne by the sacrifice of him selfe.
Hebrews 9:27	And as it is appointed vnto men that they shall once die, and after that commeth the iudgement:
Hebrews 9:28	So Christ was once offered to take away the sinnes of many, and vnto them that looke for him, shall he appeare the second time without sinne vnto saluation.
Hebrews 10:1	For the Law hauing the shadowe of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can neuer with those sacrifices, which they offer yeere by yeere continually, sanctifie the commers thereunto.
Hebrews 10:2	For would they not then haue ceased to haue bene offered, because that the offerers once purged, should haue had no more conscience of sinnes?
Hebrews 10:3	But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance againe of sinnes euery yeere.
Hebrews 10:4	For it is vnpossible that the blood of bulles and goates should take away sinnes.
Hebrews 10:5	Wherefore when he commeth into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offring thou wouldest not: but a body hast thou ordeined me.
Hebrews 10:6	In burnt offerings, and sinne offrings thou hast had no pleasure.
Hebrews 10:7	Then I sayd, Lo, I come (In the beginning of the booke it is written of me) that I should doe thy will, O God.
Hebrews 10:8	Aboue, when he sayd, Sacrifice and offring, and burnt offrings, and sinne offrings thou wouldest not haue, neither hadst pleasure therein (which are offered by the Lawe)
Hebrews 10:9	Then sayd he, Lo, I come to doe thy wil, O God, he taketh away the first, that he may stablish the second.
Hebrews 10:10	By the which wil we are sanctified, euen by the offring of the body of Iesus Christ once made.
Hebrews 10:11	And euery Priest standeth dayly ministring, and oft times offreth one maner of offring, which can neuer take away sinnes:
Hebrews 10:12	But this man after he had offered one sacrifice for sinnes, sitteth for euer at the right hand of God,
Hebrews 10:13	And from hencefoorth tarieth, till his enemies be made his footestoole.
Hebrews 10:14	For with one offering hath he consecrated for euer them that are sanctified.
Hebrews 10:15	For the holy Ghost also beareth vs record: for after that he had sayd before,
Hebrews 10:16	This is the Testament that I will make vnto them after those dayes, sayth the Lord, I wil put my Lawes in their heart, and in their mindes I will write them.
Hebrews 10:17	And their sinnes and iniquities will I remember no more.
Hebrews 10:18	Nowe where remission of these things is, there is no more offering for sinne.
Hebrews 10:19	Seeing therefore, brethren, that by the blood of Iesus we may be bolde to enter into the Holy place,
Hebrews 10:20	By the newe and liuing way, which hee hath prepared for vs, through the vaile, that is, his flesh:
Hebrews 10:21	And seeing we haue an hie Priest, which is ouer the house of God,
Hebrews 10:22	Let vs drawe neere with a true heart in assurance of faith, our hearts being pure from an euill conscience,
Hebrews 10:23	And washed in our bodies with pure water, let vs keepe the profession of our hope, without wauering, (for he is faithfull that promised)
Hebrews 10:24	And let vs consider one another, to prouoke vnto loue, and to good workes,
Hebrews 10:25	Not forsaking the fellowship that we haue among our selues, as the maner of some is: but let vs exhort one another, and that so much the more, because ye see that the day draweth neere.
Hebrews 10:26	For if we sinne willingly after that we haue receiued and acknowledged that trueth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sinnes,
Hebrews 10:27	But a fearefull looking for of iudgement, and violent fire, which shall deuoure the aduersaries.
Hebrews 10:28	He that despiseth Moses Law, dieth without mercy vnder two, or three witnesses:
Hebrews 10:29	Of howe much sorer punishment suppose ye shall hee be worthy, which treadeth vnder foote the Sonne of God, and counteth the blood of the Testament as an vnholy thing, wherewith he was sanctified, and doeth despite the Spirit of grace?
Hebrews 10:30	For we know him that hath sayd, Vengeance belongeth vnto mee: I will recompense, saith the Lord. And againe, The Lord shall iudge his people.
Hebrews 10:31	It is a fearefull thing to fall into the hands of the liuing God.
Hebrews 10:32	Nowe call to remembrance the dayes that are passed, in the which, after ye had receiued light, ye endured a great fight in afflictions,
Hebrews 10:33	Partly while yee were made a gazing stocke both by reproches and afflictions, and partly while ye became companions of them which were so tossed to and from.
Hebrews 10:34	For both ye sorowed with mee for my bonds, and suffered with ioy the spoyling of your goods, knowing in your selues howe that ye haue in heauen a better, and an enduring substance.
Hebrews 10:35	Cast not away therefore your confidence which hath great recompense of reward.
Hebrews 10:36	For ye haue neede of patience, that after ye haue done the will of God, ye might receiue the promise.
Hebrews 10:37	For yet a very litle while, and hee that shall come, will come, and will not tary.
Hebrews 10:38	Nowe the iust shall liue by faith: but if any withdrawe himselfe, my soule shall haue no pleasure in him.
Hebrews 10:39	But we are not they which withdrawe our selues vnto perdition, but follow faith vnto the conseruation of the soule.
Hebrews 11:1	Now faith is the grounds of things, which are hoped for, and the euidence of things which are not seene.
Hebrews 11:2	For by it our elders were well reported of.
Hebrews 11:3	Through faith we vnderstand that the world was ordeined by the worde of God, so that the things which we see, are not made of things which did appeare.
Hebrews 11:4	By faith Abel offered vnto God a greater sacrifice then Cain, by the which he obtained witnes that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts: by the which faith also he being dead, yet speaketh.
Hebrews 11:5	By faith was Enoch translated, that he should not see death: neither was he found: for God had translated him: for before he was translated, he was reported of, that he had pleased God.
Hebrews 11:6	But without faith it is vnpossible to please him: for he that commeth to God, must beleeue that God is, and that he is a rewarder of them that seeke him.
Hebrews 11:7	By faith Noe being warned of God of the things which were as yet not seene, mooued with reuerence, prepared the Arke to the sauing of his housholde, through the which Arke hee condemned the world, and was made heire of the righteousnes, which is by faith.
Hebrews 11:8	By faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed God, to goe out into a place, which hee should afterward receiue for inheritance, and he went out, not knowing whither he went.
Hebrews 11:9	By faith he abode in the land of promise, as in a strange countrey, as one that dwelt in tents with Isaac and Iacob heires with him of the same promise.
Hebrews 11:10	For he looked for a citie hauing a foundation, whose builder and maker is God.
Hebrews 11:11	Through faith Sara also receiued strength to conceiue seede, and was deliuered of a childe when she was past age, because she iudged him faithfull which had promised.
Hebrews 11:12	And therefore sprang there of one, euen of one which was dead, so many as the starres of the skie in multitude, and as the land of the sea shore which is innumerable.
Hebrews 11:13	All these died in faith, and receiued not the promises, but sawe them a farre off, and beleeued them, and receiued them thankefully, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth.
Hebrews 11:14	For they that say such things, declare plainely, that they seeke a countrey.
Hebrews 11:15	And if they had bene mindfull of that countrey, from whence they came out, they had leasure to haue returned.
Hebrews 11:16	But nowe they desire a better, that is an heauenly: wherefore God is not ashamed of them to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a citie.
Hebrews 11:17	By faith Abraham offered vp Isaac, when he was tryed, and he that had receiued the promises, offered his onely begotten sonne.
Hebrews 11:18	(To whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seede be called.)
Hebrews 11:19	For he considered that God was able to raise him vp euen from the dead: from whence he receiued him also after a sort.
Hebrews 11:20	By faith Isaac blessed Iacob and Esau, concerning things to come.
Hebrews 11:21	By faith Iacob when he was a dying, blessed both the sonnes of Ioseph, and leaning on the ende of his staffe, worshipped God.
Hebrews 11:22	By faith Ioseph when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel, and gaue commandement of his bones.
Hebrews 11:23	By faith Moses when he was borne, was hid three moneths of his parents, because they sawe he was a proper childe, neither feared they the kings commandement.
Hebrews 11:24	By faith Moses when he was come to age, refused to be called the sonne of Pharaohs daughter,
Hebrews 11:25	And chose rather to suffer aduersitie with the people of God, then to enioy the pleasures of sinnes for a season,
Hebrews 11:26	Esteeming the rebuke of Christ greater riches then the treasures of Egypt: for he had respect vnto the recompence of the reward.
Hebrews 11:27	By faith he forsooke Egypt, and feared not the fiercenes of the king: for he endured, as he that sawe him which is inuisible.
Hebrews 11:28	Through faith he ordeined the Passeouer and the effusion of blood, least he that destroyed the first borne, should touche them.
Hebrews 11:29	By faith they passed through the red sea as by drie land, which when the Egyptians had assayed to doe, they were swallowed vp.
Hebrews 11:30	By faith the walles of Iericho fell downe after they were copassed about seue dayes.
Hebrews 11:31	By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them which obeyed not, when she had receiued the spies peaceably.
Hebrews 11:32	And what shall I more say? for the time would be too short for me to tell of Gedeon, of Barac, and of Sampson, and of Iephte, also of Dauid, and Samuel, and of the Prophets:
Hebrews 11:33	Which through faith subdued kingdomes, wrought righteousnesse, obteined the promises, stopped the mouthes of lions,
Hebrews 11:34	Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sworde, of weake were made strong, waxed valiant in battell, turned to flight the armies of the aliants.
Hebrews 11:35	The women receiued their dead raised to life: other also were racked, and woulde not be deliuered, that they might receiue a better resurrection.
Hebrews 11:36	And others haue bene tryed by mockings and scourgings, yea, moreouer by bondes and prisonment.
Hebrews 11:37	They were stoned, they were hewen asunder, they were tempted, they were slaine with the sworde, they wandred vp and downe in sheepes skinnes, and in goates skinnes, being destitute, afflicted, and tormented:
Hebrews 11:38	Whom the world was not worthie of: they wandered in wildernesses and mountaines, and dennes, and caues of the earth.
Hebrews 11:39	And these all through faith obteined good report, and receiued not the promise,
Hebrews 11:40	God prouiding a better thing for vs, that they without vs should not be made perfite.
Hebrews 12:1	Wherefore, let vs also, seeing that we are compassed with so great a cloude of witnesses, cast away euery thing that presseth downe, and the sinne that hangeth so fast on: let vs runne with patience the race that is set before vs,
Hebrews 12:2	Looking vnto Iesus the authour and finisher of our faith, who for the ioy that was set before him, endured the crosse, and despised the shame, and is set at the right hand of the throne of God.
Hebrews 12:3	Consider therefore him that endured such speaking against of sinners, lest ye should be wearied and faint in your mindes.
Hebrews 12:4	Ye haue not yet resisted vnto blood, striuing against sinne.
Hebrews 12:5	And ye haue forgotten the consolation, which speaketh vnto you as vnto children, My sonne, despise not the chastening of the Lord, neither faint when thou art rebuked of him.
Hebrews 12:6	For whom the Lord loueth, he chasteneth: and he scourgeth euery sonne that he receiueth:
Hebrews 12:7	If ye endure chastening, God offereth him selfe vnto you as vnto sonnes: for what sonne is it whom the father chasteneth not?
Hebrews 12:8	If therefore ye be without correction, whereof al are partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sonnes.
Hebrews 12:9	Moreouer we haue had the fathers of our bodies which corrected vs, and we gaue them reuerence: should we not much rather be in subiection vnto the father of spirites, that we might liue?
Hebrews 12:10	For they verely for a few dayes chastened vs after their owne pleasure: but he chasteneth vs for our profite, that we might be partakers of his holinesse.
Hebrews 12:11	Now no chastising for the present seemeth to be ioyous, but, grieuous: but afterwarde, it bringeth the quiet fruite of righteousnesse, vnto them which are thereby exercised.
Hebrews 12:12	Wherfore lift vp your hands which hang downe, and your weake knees,
Hebrews 12:13	And make straight steppes vnto your feete, lest that which is halting, be turned out of the way, but let it rather be healed.
Hebrews 12:14	Followe peace with all men, and holinesse, without the which no man shall see ye Lord.
Hebrews 12:15	Take heede, that no man fall away from the grace of God: let no roote of bitternes spring vp and trouble you, lest thereby many be defiled.
Hebrews 12:16	Let there be no fornicator, or prophane person as Esau, which for one portion of meate solde his birthright.
Hebrews 12:17	For ye knowe howe that afterwarde also when he woulde haue inherited the blessing, he was reiected: for he founde no place to repentance, though he sought that blessing with teares.
Hebrews 12:18	For ye are not come vnto the mount that might be touched, nor vnto burning fire, nor to blacknes and darkenes, and tempest,
Hebrews 12:19	Neither vnto the sounde of a trumpet, and the voyce of wordes, which they that heard it, excused themselues, that the word should not be spoken to them any more,
Hebrews 12:20	(For they were not able to abide that which was commanded, yea, though a beast touche the mountaine, it shalbe stoned, or thrust through with a dart:
Hebrews 12:21	And so terrible was the sight which appeared, that Moses said, I feare and quake.)
Hebrews 12:22	But ye are come vnto the mount Sion, and to the citie of the liuing God, the celestiall Hierusalem, and to ye company of innumerable Angels,
Hebrews 12:23	And to the assemblie and congregation of the first borne, which are written in heauen, and to God the iudge of all, and to the spirits of iust and perfite men,
Hebrews 12:24	And to Iesus the Mediatour of the new Testament, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things then that of Abel.
Hebrews 12:25	See that ye despise not him that speaketh: for if they escaped not which refused him, that spake on earth: much more shall we not escape, if we turne away from him, that speaketh from heauen.
Hebrews 12:26	Whose voyce then shooke the earth and nowe hath declared, saying, Yet once more will I shake, not the earth onely, but also heauen.
Hebrews 12:27	And this worde, Yet once more, signifieth the remouing of those things which are shaken, as of things which are made with hands, that the things which are not shaken, may remaine.
Hebrews 12:28	Wherefore seeing we receiue a kingdome, which cannot be shaken, let vs haue grace whereby we may so serue God, that we may please him with reuerence and feare.
Hebrews 12:29	For euen our God is a consuming fire.
Hebrews 13:1	Let brotherly loue continue.
Hebrews 13:2	Be not forgetfull to intertaine strangers: for thereby some haue receiued Angels into their houses vnwares.
Hebrews 13:3	Remember them that are in bondes, as though ye were bounde with them: and them that are in affliction, as if ye were also afflicted in the body.
Hebrews 13:4	Mariage is honorable among all, and the bed vndefiled: but whoremongers and adulterers God will iudge.
Hebrews 13:5	Let your conuersation be without couetousnesse, and be content with those things that ye haue, for he hath said,
Hebrews 13:6	I will not faile thee, neither forsake thee:
Hebrews 13:7	So that we may boldly say, The Lord is mine helper, neither will I feare what man can doe vnto me.
Hebrews 13:8	Remember them which haue the ouersight of you, which haue declared vnto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering what hath bene the ende of their conuersation. Iesus Christ yesterday, and to day, the same also is for euer.
Hebrews 13:9	Be not caried about with diuers and strange doctrines: for it is a good thing that the heart be stablished with grace, and not with meates, which haue not profited them that haue bene occupied therein.
Hebrews 13:10	We haue an altar, whereof they haue no authoritie to eate, which serue in the tabernacle.
Hebrews 13:11	For the bodies of those beastes whose blood is brought into the Holy place by the high Priest for sinne, are burnt without the campe.
Hebrews 13:12	Therefore euen Iesus, that he might sanctifie the people with his owne blood, suffered without the gate.
Hebrews 13:13	Let vs goe foorth to him therefore out of the campe, bearing his reproch.
Hebrews 13:14	For here haue we no continuing citie: but we seeke one to come.
Hebrews 13:15	Let vs therefore by him offer the sacrifice of prayse alwaies to God, that is, the fruite of the lippes, which confesse his Name.
Hebrews 13:16	To doe good, and to distribute forget not: for with such sacrifices God is pleased.
Hebrews 13:17	Obey them that haue the ouersight of you, and submit your selues: for they watche for your soules, as they that must giue accountes, that they may doe it with ioy, and not with griefe: for that is vnprofitable for you.
Hebrews 13:18	Pray for vs: for we are assured that we haue a good conscience in all things, desiring to liue honestly.
Hebrews 13:19	And I desire you somewhat the more earnestly, that yee so doe, that I may be restored to you more quickly.
Hebrews 13:20	The God of peace that brought againe from the dead our Lord Iesus, the great shepheard of the sheepe, through the blood of the euerlasting Couenant,
Hebrews 13:21	Make you perfect in all good workes, to doe his will, working in you that which is pleasant in his sight through Iesus Christ, to whom be praise for euer and euer, Amen.
Hebrews 13:22	I beseeche you also, brethren, suffer the wordes of exhortation: for I haue written vnto you in fewe wordes.
Hebrews 13:23	Knowe that our brother Timotheus is deliuered, with whome (if hee come shortly) I will see you.
Hebrews 13:24	Salute all them that haue the ouersight of you, and all the Saintes. They of Italie salute you.
Hebrews 13:25	Grace be with you all, Amen. ‘Written to the Hebrewes from Italie, and sent by Timotheus.’

===== BOOK: Hosea =====
Hosea 1:1	The worde of the Lord that came vnto Hosea the sonne of Beeri, in the daies of Vzziah, Iotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah Kings of Iudah, and in the daies of Ieroboam the sonne of Ioash king of Israel.
Hosea 1:2	At the beginning the Lord spake by Hosea, and the Lord said vnto Hosea, Goe, take vnto thee a wife of fornications, and children of fornications: for the lande hath committed great whoredome, departing from the Lord.
Hosea 1:3	So he went, and tooke Gomer, ye daughter of Diblaim, which conceiued and bare him a sonne.
Hosea 1:4	And the Lord said vnto him, Cal his name Izreel: for yet a litle, and I will visite the blood of Izreel vpon the house of Iehu, and will cause to cease the kingdome of the house of Israel.
Hosea 1:5	And at that day will I also breake the bowe of Israel in the valley of Izreel.
Hosea 1:6	She conceiued yet againe, and bare a daughter, and God saide vnto him, Call her name Lo-ruhamah: for I will no more haue pitie vpon the house of Israel: but I wil vtterly take them away.
Hosea 1:7	Yet I will haue mercie vpon the house of Iudah, and wil saue them by the Lord their God, and wil not saue them by bow, nor by sword nor by battell, by horses, nor by horsemen.
Hosea 1:8	Nowe when she had wained Lo-ruhamah, shee conceiued, and bare a sonne.
Hosea 1:9	Then saide God, Call his name Lo-ammi: for yee are not my people: therefore will I not be yours.
Hosea 1:10	Yet the nomber of the children of Israel shall be as the sande of the sea, which can not be measured nor tolde: and in the place where it was saide vnto them, Yee are not my people, it shall be saide vnto them, Yee are the sonnes of the liuing God.
Hosea 1:11	Then shall the children of Iudah, and the children of Israel be gathered together, and appoint them selues one head, and they shall come vp out of the land: for great is the day of Izreel.
Hosea 2:1	Say vnto your brethren, Ammi, and to your sisters, Ruhamah,
Hosea 2:2	Plead with your mother: plead with her: for she is not my wife, neither am I her husband: but let her take away her fornications out of her sight, and her adulteries from betweene her breasts.
Hosea 2:3	Lest I strippe her naked, and set her as in the day that shee was borne, and make her as a wildernes, and leaue her like a drie land, and slaie her for thirst.
Hosea 2:4	And I wil haue no pitie vpon her children: for they be the children of fornications.
Hosea 2:5	For their mother hath plaied the harlot: she that conceiued them, hath done shamefully: for shee said, I will goe after my louers that giue me my bread and my water, my wooll and my flaxe, mine oyle and my drinke.
Hosea 2:6	Therefore beholde, I will stoope thy way with thornes, and make an hedge, that shee shall not finde her pathes.
Hosea 2:7	Though shee follow after her louers, yet shall shee not come at them: though shee seeke them, yet shall shee not finde them: then shall she say, I will goe and returne to my first husband: for at that time was I better then nowe.
Hosea 2:8	Nowe she did not knowe that I gaue her corne, and wine, and oyle, and multiplied her siluer and golde, which they bestowed vpon Baal.
Hosea 2:9	Therefore wil I returne, and take away my corne in the time thereof, and my wine in the season thereof, and will recouer my wool and my flaxe lent, to couer her shame.
Hosea 2:10	And now will I discouer her lewdnes in the sight of her louers, and no man shall deliuer her out of mine hand.
Hosea 2:11	I will also cause all her mirth to cease, her feast daies, her newe moones, and her Sabbathes, and all her solemne feasts.
Hosea 2:12	And I wil destroy her vines and her figtrees, whereof she hath said, These are my rewards that my louers haue giuen mee: and I will make them as a forest, and the wilde beasts shall eate them.
Hosea 2:13	And I wil visit vpon her the daies of Baalim, wherein shee burnt incense to them: and shee decked her selfe with her earings and her iewels, and shee folowed her louers, and forgate me, saith the Lord.
Hosea 2:14	Therefore beholde, I will allure her, and bring her into the wildernesse, and speake friendly vnto her.
Hosea 2:15	And I will giue her her vineyardes from thence, and the valley of Achor for the doore of hope, and shee shall sing there as in the daies of her youth, and as in the daies when shee came vp out of the land of Egypt.
Hosea 2:16	And at that day, sayeth the Lord, thou shalt call me Ishi, and shalt call me no more Baali.
Hosea 2:17	For I will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, and they shall be no more remembred by their names.
Hosea 2:18	And in that day wil I make a couenant for them, with the wilde beasts, and with the foules of the heauen, and with that that creepeth vpon the earth: and I will breake the bowe, and the sworde and the battell out of the earth, and will make them to sleepe safely.
Hosea 2:19	And I wil marry thee vnto me for euer: yea, I will marry thee vnto me in righteousnes, and in iudgement, and in mercy and in compassion.
Hosea 2:20	I will euen marry thee vnto me in faithfulnes, and thou shalt knowe the Lord.
Hosea 2:21	And in that day I wil heare, saith the Lord, I will euen heare the heauens, and they shall heare the earth,
Hosea 2:22	And the earth shall heare the corne, and the wine, and the oyle, and they shall heare Izreel.
Hosea 2:23	And I will sowe her vnto me in the earth, and I will haue mercie vpon her, that was not pitied, and I will say to them which were not my people, Thou art my people. And they shall say, Thou art my God.
Hosea 3:1	Then said the Lord to me, Goe yet, and loue a woman (beloued of her husband, and was an harlot) according to the loue of the Lord toward the children of Israel: yet they looked to other gods, and loued the wine bottels.
Hosea 3:2	So I bought her to me for fifteene pieces of siluer, and for an homer of barlie and an halfe homer of barlie.
Hosea 3:3	And I said vnto her, Thou shalt abide with me many dayes: thou shalt not play the harlot, and thou shalt be to none other man, and I will be so vnto thee.
Hosea 3:4	For the children of Israel shall remaine many dayes without a King and without a prince, and without an offering, and without an image, and without an Ephod and without Teraphim.
Hosea 3:5	Afterward shall the children of Israel conuert, and seeke the Lord their God, and Dauid their King, and shall feare the Lord, and his goodnes in the latter dayes.
Hosea 4:1	Heare the worde of the Lord, ye children of Israel: for the Lord hath a controuersie with the inhabitants of the lande, because there is no trueth nor mercie nor knowledge of God in the lande.
Hosea 4:2	By swearing, and lying, and killing, and stealing, and whoring they breake out, and blood toucheth blood.
Hosea 4:3	Therefore shall the land mourne, and euery one that dwelleth therein, shall be cut off, with the beasts of the fielde, and with the foules of the heauen, and also the fishes of the sea shall be taken away.
Hosea 4:4	Yet let none rebuke, nor reproue another: for thy people are as they that rebuke the Priest.
Hosea 4:5	Therefore shalt thou fall in the day, and the Prophet shall fall with thee in the night, and I will destroy thy mother.
Hosea 4:6	My people are destroyed for lacke of knowledge: because thou hast refused knowledge, I will also refuse thee, that thou shalt be no Priest to me: and seeing thou hast forgotten the Lawe of thy God, I will also forget thy children.
Hosea 4:7	As they were increased, so they sinned against me: therefore will I chaunge their glorie into shame.
Hosea 4:8	They eate vp the sinnes of my people, and lift vp their mindes in their iniquitie.
Hosea 4:9	And there shalbe like people, like Priest: for I wil visite their wayes vpon them, and reward them their deedes.
Hosea 4:10	For they shall eate, and not haue ynough: they shall commit adulterie, and shall not increase, because they haue left off to take heede to ye Lord.
Hosea 4:11	Whoredome, and wine, and newe wine take away their heart.
Hosea 4:12	My people aske counsell at their stockes, and their staffe teacheth them: for the spirite of fornications hath caused them to erre, and they haue gone a whoring from vnder their God.
Hosea 4:13	They sacrifice vpon the toppes of ye mountaines, and burne incense vpon the hilles vnder the okes, and the poplar tree, and the elme, because the shadow thereof is good: therefore your daughters shall be harlots, and your spouses shall be whores.
Hosea 4:14	I will not visite your daughters when they are harlots: nor your spouses when they are whores: for they themselues are separated with harlots, and sacrifice with whores: therefore the people that doeth not vnderstand, shall fall.
Hosea 4:15	Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, yet let not Iudah sinne: come not ye vnto Gilgal, neither goe ye vp to Beth-auen, nor sweare, The Lord liueth.
Hosea 4:16	For Israel is rebellious as an vnruly heyfer. Nowe the Lord will feede them as a lambe in a large place.
Hosea 4:17	Ephraim is ioyned to idoles: let him alone.
Hosea 4:18	Their drunkennes stinketh: they haue committed whoredome: their rulers loue to say with shame, Bring ye.
Hosea 4:19	The winde hath bounde them vp in her wings, and they shalbe ashamed of their sacrifices.
Hosea 5:1	O ye Priestes, heare this, and hearken ye, O house of Israel, and giue ye eare, O house of the King: for iudgement is towarde you, because you haue bene a snare on Mizpah, and a net spred vpon Tabor.
Hosea 5:2	Yet they were profounde, to decline to slaughter, though I haue bene a rebuker of them all.
Hosea 5:3	I knowe Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me: for nowe, O Ephraim thou art become an harlot, and Israel is defiled.
Hosea 5:4	They will not giue their mindes to turne vnto their God: for the spirit of fornication is in the middes of them, and they haue not knowen the Lord.
Hosea 5:5	And the pride of Israel doth testifie to his face: therefore shall Israel and Ephraim fall in their iniquitie: Iudah also shall fall with them.
Hosea 5:6	They shall goe with their sheepe, and with their bullockes to seeke the Lord: but they shall not finde him: for he hath withdrawne himselfe from them.
Hosea 5:7	They haue transgressed against the Lord: for they haue begotte strange children: now shall a moneth deuoure them with their portions.
Hosea 5:8	Blowe ye the trumpet in Gibeah, and the shaume in Ramah: crie out at Beth-auen, after thee, O Beniamin.
Hosea 5:9	Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke: among the tribes of Israel haue I caused to knowe the trueth.
Hosea 5:10	The princes of Iudah were like them that remoue the bounde: therefore will I powre out my wrath vpon them like water.
Hosea 5:11	Ephraim is oppressed, and broken in iudgement, because he willingly walked after the commandement.
Hosea 5:12	Therefore wil I be vnto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of Iudah as a rottennesse.
Hosea 5:13	When Ephraim sawe his sickenes, and Iudah his wound, then went Ephraim vnto Asshur, and sent vnto King Iareb: yet coulde hee not heale you, nor cure you of your wound.
Hosea 5:14	For I will be vnto Ephraim as a lyon, and as a lyons whelpe to the house of Iudah: I, euen I will spoyle, and goe away: I will take away, and none shall rescue it.
Hosea 5:15	I will go, and returne to my place, til they acknowledge their fault, and seeke me: in their affliction they will seeke me diligently.
Hosea 6:1	Come, and let vs returne to the Lord: for he hath spoyled, and he will heale vs: he hath wounded vs, and he will binde vs vp.
Hosea 6:2	After two dayes will he reuiue vs, and in the third day he will raise vs vp, and we shall liue in his sight.
Hosea 6:3	Then shall we haue knowledge, and indeuour our selues to know the Lord: his going forth is prepared as the morning, and he shall come vnto vs as the raine, and as the latter raine vnto the earth.
Hosea 6:4	O Ephraim, what shall I doe vnto thee? O Iudah, how shall I intreate thee? for your goodnesse is as a morning cloude, and as the morning dewe it goeth away.
Hosea 6:5	Therefore haue I cut downe by the Prophets: I haue slaine them by the wordes of my mouth, and thy iudgements were as the light that goeth forth.
Hosea 6:6	For I desired mercie, and not sacrifice, and the knowledge of God more then burnt offrings.
Hosea 6:7	But they like men haue transgressed the couenant: there haue they trespassed against me.
Hosea 6:8	Gilead is a citie of them that worke iniquitie, and is polluted with blood.
Hosea 6:9	And as the eues waite for a man, so the companie of Priestes murder in the way by consent: for they worke mischiefe.
Hosea 6:10	I haue seene vileny in the house of Israel: there is ye whoredome of Ephraim: Israel is defiled.
Hosea 6:11	Yea, Iudah hath set a plant for thee, whiles I woulde returne ye captiuitie of my people.
Hosea 7:1	When I woulde haue healed Israel, then the iniquitie of Ephraim was discouered, and the wickednesse of Samaria: for they haue dealt falsly: and the theefe commeth in, and the robber spoyleth without.
Hosea 7:2	And they consider not in their hearts, that I remember all their wickednes: now their owne inuentions haue beset them about: they are in my sight.
Hosea 7:3	They make the King glad with their wickednesse, and the princes with their lies.
Hosea 7:4	They are all adulterers, and as a very ouen heated by ye baker, which ceaseth from raysing vp, and from kneading ye dough vntill it be leauened.
Hosea 7:5	This is the day of our King: the princes haue made him sicke with flagons of wine: he stretcheth out his hand to scorners.
Hosea 7:6	For they haue made ready their heart like an ouen whiles they lie in waite: their baker sleepeth all the night: in the morning it burneth as a flame of fire.
Hosea 7:7	They are all hote as an ouen, and haue deuoured their iudges: all their Kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth vnto me.
Hosea 7:8	Ephraim hath mixt himselfe among the people. Ephraim is as a cake on the hearth not turned.
Hosea 7:9	Strangers haue deuoured his strength, and he knoweth it not: yea, gray heares are here and there vpon him, yet he knoweth not.
Hosea 7:10	And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face, and they doe not returne to the Lord their God, nor seeke him for all this.
Hosea 7:11	Ephraim also is like a doue deceiued, without heart: they call to Egypt: they go to Asshur.
Hosea 7:12	But when they shall go, I will spred my net vpon them, and drawe them downe as the foules of the heauen: I will chastice them as their congregation hath heard.
Hosea 7:13	Wo vnto them: for they haue fled away from me: destruction shalbe vnto them, because they haue transgressed against me: though I haue redeemed them, yet they haue spoken lyes against me.
Hosea 7:14	And they haue not cryed vnto me with their hearts, when they houled vpon their beds: they assembled themselues for corne, and wine, and they rebell against me.
Hosea 7:15	Though I haue boud and strengthened their arme, yet doe they imagine mischiefe against me.
Hosea 7:16	They returne, but not to the most high: they are like a deceitfull bowe: their princes shall fall by the sword, for the rage of their tongues: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.
Hosea 8:1	Set the trumpet to thy mouth: he shall come as an eagle against the House of the Lord, because they haue transgressed my couenant, and trespassed against my Lawe.
Hosea 8:2	Israel shall crie vnto me, My God, we know thee.
Hosea 8:3	Israel hath cast off ye thing that is good: the enemie shall pursue him.
Hosea 8:4	They haue set vp a King, but not by me: they haue made princes, and I knew it not: of their siluer and their gold haue they made them idoles: therefore shall they be destroyed.
Hosea 8:5	Thy calfe, O Samaria, hath cast thee off: mine anger is kindled against them: howe long will they be without innocencie!
Hosea 8:6	For it came euen from Israel: the workeman made it, therefore it is not God: but the calfe of Samaria shall be broken in pieces.
Hosea 8:7	For they haue sowne the winde, and they shall reape the whirlewind: it hath no stalke: the budde shall bring foorth no meale: if so be it bring forth, the strangers shall deuoure it.
Hosea 8:8	Israel is deuoured, now shall they be among the Gentiles as a vessell wherein is no pleasure.
Hosea 8:9	For they are gone vp to Asshur: they are as a wilde asse alone by himselfe: Ephraim hath hired louers.
Hosea 8:10	Yet though they haue hired among the nations, nowe will I gather them, and they shall sorowe a litle, for the burden of the King and the princes.
Hosea 8:11	Because Ephraim hath made many altars to sinne, his altars shalbe to sinne.
Hosea 8:12	I haue written to them the great things of my Lawe: but they were counted as a strange thing.
Hosea 8:13	They sacrifice flesh for ye sacrifices of mine offerings, and eate it: but the Lord accepteth them not: now will he remember their iniquitie, and visite their sinnes: they shall returne to Egypt.
Hosea 8:14	For Israel hath forgotten his maker, and buildeth Temples, and Iudah hath increased strong cities: but I will sende a fire vpon his cities, and it shall deuoure the palaces thereof.
Hosea 9:1	Rejoice not, O Israel for ioy as other people: for thou hast gone a whoring from thy God: thou hast loued a rewarde vpon euery corne floore.
Hosea 9:2	The floore, and the wine presse shall not feede them, and the newe wine shall faile in her.
Hosea 9:3	They wil not dwel in the Lordes lande, but Ephraim will returne to Egypt, and they will eate vncleane things in Asshur.
Hosea 9:4	They shall not offer wine to the Lord, neither shall their sacrifices be pleasant vnto him: but they shall be vnto them as the bread of mourners: al that eate thereof, shalbe polluted: for their bread for their soules shall not come into the house of the Lord.
Hosea 9:5	What wil ye do then in the solemne day, and in the day of the feast of the Lord?
Hosea 9:6	For loe, they are gone from destruction: but Egypt shall gather them vp, and Memphis shall burie them: the nettle shall possesse the pleasant places of their siluer, and the thorne shall be in their tabernacles.
Hosea 9:7	The daies of visitation are come: the daies of recompence are come: Israel shall knowe it: the Prophet is a foole: the spiritual man is mad, for the multitude of thine iniquitie: therefore the hatred is great.
Hosea 9:8	The watchman of Ephraim shoulde bee with my God: but the Prophet is the snare of a fouler in all his waies, and hatred in the House of his God.
Hosea 9:9	They are deepely set: they are corrupt as in the daies of Gibeah: therefore he will remember their iniquitie, he will visite their sinnes.
Hosea 9:10	I found Israel like grapes in the wildernes: I saw your fathers as the first ripe in the figge tree at her first time: but they went to Baal-Peor, and separated themselues vnto that shame, and their abominations were according to their louers.
Hosea 9:11	Ephraim their glorie shall flee away like a birde: from the birth and from the wombe, and from the conception.
Hosea 9:12	Though they bring vp their children, yet I will depriue them from being men: yea, woe to them, when I depart from them.
Hosea 9:13	Ephraim, as I sawe, is as a tree in Tyrus planted in a cottage: but Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the murtherer.
Hosea 9:14	O Lord, giue them: what wilt thou giue them? giue them a baren wombe and drie breasts.
Hosea 9:15	All their wickednesse is in Gilgal: for there doe I hate them: for the wickednesse of their inuentions, I will cast them out of mine House: I will loue them no more: all their princes are rebels.
Hosea 9:16	Ephraim is smitten, their roote is dried vp: they can bring no fruite: yea, though they bring foorth, yet will I slaie euen the dearest of their bodie.
Hosea 9:17	My God will cast them away, because they did not obey him: and they shall wander among the nations.
Hosea 10:1	Israel is a emptie vine, yet hath it brought foorth fruite vnto it selfe, and according to the multitude of the fruite thereof he hath increased the altars: according to the goodnesse of their lande they haue made faire images.
Hosea 10:2	Their heart is deuided: nowe shall they be founde faultie: he shall breake downe their altars: he shall destroy their images.
Hosea 10:3	For now they shall say, We haue no King because we feared not the Lord: and what should a King doe to vs?
Hosea 10:4	They haue spoken woordes, swearing falsly in making a couenant: thus iudgement groweth as wormewoode in the furrowes of the fielde.
Hosea 10:5	The inhabitants of Samaria shall feare because of the calfe of Beth-auen: for the people thereof shall mourne ouer it, and the Chemarims thereof, that reioyced on it for the glorie thereof, because it is departed from it.
Hosea 10:6	It shall bee also brought to Asshur, for a present vnto King Iareb: Ephraim shall receiue shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his owne counsell.
Hosea 10:7	Of Samaria, the King thereof is destroyed as the some vpon the water.
Hosea 10:8	The hie places also of Auen shall be destroied, euen the sinne of Israel: the thorne and the thistle shall growe vpon their altars, and they shall say to the mountaines, Couer vs, and to the hils, Fall vpon vs.
Hosea 10:9	O Israel, thou hast sinned from the daies of Gibeah: there they stoode: the battell in Gibeah against the children of iniquitie did not touch them.
Hosea 10:10	It is my desire that I should chastice them, and the people shall be gathered against them, when they shall gather themselues in their two furrowes.
Hosea 10:11	And Ephraim is as an heifer vsed to delite in threshing: but I will passe by her faire necke: I will make Ephraim to ride: Iudah shall plowe, and Iaakob shall breake his cloddes.
Hosea 10:12	Sowe to your selues in righteousnes: reape after the measure of mercy: breake vp your fallowe grounde: for it is time to seeke the Lord, till he come and raine righteousnesse vpon you.
Hosea 10:13	But you haue plowed wickednesse: ye haue reaped iniquitie: you haue eaten the fruite of lies: because thou didest trust in thine owne waies, and in the multitude of thy strong men,
Hosea 10:14	Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people, and all thy munitions shall be destroyed, as Shalman destroyed Beth-arbell in the daie of battell: the mother with the children was dashed in pieces.
Hosea 10:15	So shall Beth-el doe vnto you, because of your malicious wickednes: in a morning shall the King of Israel be destroied.
Hosea 11:1	When Israel was a childe, then I loued him, and called my sonne out of Egypt.
Hosea 11:2	They called them, but they went thus from them: they sacrificed vnto Baalim, and burnt incense to images.
Hosea 11:3	I ledde Ephraim also, as one shoulde beare them in his armes: but they knewe not that I healed them.
Hosea 11:4	I led them with cordes of a man, euen with bandes of loue, and I was to them, as hee that taketh off the yoke from their iawes, and I laide the meat vnto them.
Hosea 11:5	He shall no more returne into the lande of Egypt: but Asshur shalbe his King, because they refused to conuert.
Hosea 11:6	And the sworde shall fall on his cities, and shall consume his barres, and deuoure them, because of their owne counsels.
Hosea 11:7	And my people are bent to rebellion against me: though they called them to the most hie, yet none at all would exalt him.
Hosea 11:8	Howe shall I giue thee vp, Ephraim? howe shall I deliuer thee, Israel? how shall I make thee, as Admah? howe shall I set thee, as Zeboim? mine heart is turned within mee: my repentings are rouled together.
Hosea 11:9	I wil not execute ye fiercenesse of my wrath: I will not returne to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man, the holy one in the middes of thee, and I will not enter into the citie.
Hosea 11:10	They shall walke after the Lord: he shall roare like a lyon: when hee shall roare, then the children of the West shall feare.
Hosea 11:11	They shall feare as a sparrow out of Egypt, and as a doue of the lande of Asshur, and I will place them in their houses, sayth the Lord.
Hosea 11:12	Ephraim copasseth me about with lies, and the house of Israel with deceit: but Iudah yet ruleth with God, and is faithfull with the Saints.
Hosea 12:1	Ephraim is fed with the winde, and followeth after the East winde: hee increaseth daily lies and destruction, and they do make a couenant with Asshur, and oyle is caried into Egypt.
Hosea 12:2	The Lord hath also a controuersie with Iudah, and will visite Iaakob, according to his waies: according to his workes, wil he recompence him.
Hosea 12:3	Hee tooke his brother by the heele in the wombe, and by his strength he had power with God,
Hosea 12:4	And had power ouer the Angel, and preuailed: he wept and praied vnto him: he founde him in Beth-el, and there he spake with vs.
Hosea 12:5	Yea, the Lord God of hostes, the Lord is himselfe his memoriall.
Hosea 12:6	Therefore turne thou to thy God: keepe mercy and iudgement, and hope still in thy God.
Hosea 12:7	He is Canaan: the balances of deceit are in his hand: he loueth to oppresse.
Hosea 12:8	And Ephraim saide, Notwithstanding I am rich, I haue found me out riches in all my labours: they shall finde none iniquitie in me, that were wickednesse.
Hosea 12:9	Though I am the Lord thy God, from the land of Egypt, yet will I make thee to dwel in the tabernacles, as in the daies of the solemne feast.
Hosea 12:10	I haue also spoken by the Prophets, and I haue multiplied visions, and vsed similitudes by the ministerie of the Prophets.
Hosea 12:11	Is there iniquitie in Gilead? surely they are vanitie: they sacrifice bullocks in Gilgal, and their altars are as heapes in the furrowes of the field.
Hosea 12:12	And Iaakob fled into the countrey of Aram, and Israel serued for a wife, and for a wife he kept sheepe.
Hosea 12:13	And by a Prophet the Lord brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a Prophet was he reserued.
Hosea 12:14	But Ephraim prouoked him with hie places: therefore shall his blood be powred vpon him, and his reproche shall his Lord reward him.
Hosea 13:1	When Ephraim spake, there was trembling: hee exalted him selfe in Israel, but he hath sinned in Baal, and is dead.
Hosea 13:2	And nowe they sinne more and more, and haue made them molten images of their siluer, and idoles according to their owne vnderstanding: they were all the woorke of the craftesmen: they say one to another whiles they sacrifice a man, Let them kisse the calues.
Hosea 13:3	Therefore they shall bee as the morning cloude, and as the morning dewe that passeth away, as the chaffe that is driuen with a whirlewind out of the floore, and as the smoke that goeth out of the chimney.
Hosea 13:4	Yet I am the Lord thy God from the land of Egypt, and thou shalt knowe no God but me: for there is no Sauiour beside me.
Hosea 13:5	I did knowe thee in the wildernesse, in the land of drought.
Hosea 13:6	As in their pastures, so were they filled: they were filled, and their heart was exalted: therefore haue they forgotten me.
Hosea 13:7	And I wil be vnto them as a very lyon, and as a leopard in the way of Asshur.
Hosea 13:8	I will meete them, as a beare that is robbed of her whelpes, and I will breake the kall of their heart, and there will I deuoure them like a lion: the wilde beast shall teare them.
Hosea 13:9	O Israel, one hath destroyed thee, but in me is thine helpe.
Hosea 13:10	I am: where is thy King, that shoulde help thee in al thy cities? and thy iudges, of whom thou saidest, Giue me a King, and princes?
Hosea 13:11	I gaue thee a King in mine anger, and I tooke him away in my wrath.
Hosea 13:12	The iniquitie of Ephraim is bound vp: his sinne is hid.
Hosea 13:13	The sorowes of a trauailing woman shall come vpon him: he is an vnwise sonne, els would he not stande still at the time, euen at the breaking forth of the children.
Hosea 13:14	I wil redeeme them from the power of the graue: I will deliuer them from death: O death, I wil be thy death: O graue, I will be thy destruction: repentance is hid from mine eyes.
Hosea 13:15	Though he grewe vp among his brethren, an East winde shall come, euen the winde of the Lord shall come vp from the wildernesse, and drie vp his veine, and his fountaine shalbe dryed vp: he shall spoyle the treasure of all pleasant vessels.
Hosea 14:1	Samaria shalbe desolate: for she hath rebelled against her God: they shall fall by the sworde: their infants shalbe dashed in pieces, and their women with childe shalbe ript.
Hosea 14:2	O Israel, returne vnto the Lord thy God: for thou hast fallen by thine iniquitie.
Hosea 14:3	Take vnto you words, and turne to the Lord, and say vnto him, Take away all iniquitie, and receiue vs graciously: so wil we render the calues of our lippes.
Hosea 14:4	Asshur shall not saue vs, neither wil we ride vpon horses, neither will we say any more to the worke of our handes, Ye are our gods: for in thee the fatherlesse findeth mercie.
Hosea 14:5	I wil heale their rebellion: I wil loue them freely: for mine anger is turned away from him.
Hosea 14:6	I will be as the dewe vnto Israel: he shall grow as the lilie and fasten his rootes, as the trees of Lebanon.
Hosea 14:7	His branches shall spread, and his beautie shalbe as the oliue tree, and his smell as Lebanon.
Hosea 14:8	They that dwel vnder his shadow, shall returne: they shall reuiue as the corne, and florish as the vine: the sent thereof shalbe as the wine of Lebanon.
Hosea 14:9	Ephraim shall say, What haue I to doe any more with idoles? I haue heard him, and looked vpon him: I am like a greene firre tree: vpon me is thy fruite founde.
Hosea 14:10	Who is wise, and he shall vnderstande these things? and prudent, and he shall knowe them? for the wayes of the Lord are righteous, and the iust shall walke in them: but the wicked shall fall therein.

===== BOOK: Isaiah =====
Isaiah 1:1	A vision of Isaiah, the sonne of Amoz, which he sawe concerning Iudah and Ierusalem: in the dayes of Vzziah, Iotham, Ahaz and Hezekiah Kings of Iudah.
Isaiah 1:2	Heare, O heauens, and hearken, O earth: for the Lord hath sayde, I haue nourished and brought vp children, but they haue rebelled against me.
Isaiah 1:3	The oxe knoweth his owner, and the asse his masters crib: but Israel hath not knowen: my people hath not vnderstand.
Isaiah 1:4	Ah, sinfull nation, a people laden with iniquitie: a seede of the wicked, corrupt children: they haue forsaken the Lord: they haue prouoked the holy one of Israel to anger: they are gone backewarde.
Isaiah 1:5	Wherefore shoulde ye be smitten any more? for ye fall away more and more: the whole head is sicke, and the whole heart is heauie.
Isaiah 1:6	From the sole of the foote vnto the head, there is nothing whole therein, but wounds, and swelling, and sores full of corruption: they haue not bene wrapped, nor bound vp, nor mollified with oyle.
Isaiah 1:7	Your land is waste: your cities are burnt with fire: strangers deuoure your lande in your presence, and it is desolate like the ouerthrowe of strangers.
Isaiah 1:8	And the daughter of Zion shall remaine like a cotage in a vineyarde, like a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, and like a besieged citie.
Isaiah 1:9	Except the Lord of hostes had reserued vnto vs, euen a small remnant: we should haue bene as Sodom, and should haue bene like vnto Gomorah.
Isaiah 1:10	Heare the worde of the Lord, O princes of Sodom: hearken vnto the Law of our God, O people of Gomorah.
Isaiah 1:11	What haue I to doe with the multitude of your sacrifices, sayth the Lord? I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and of the fat of fed beasts: and I desire not the blood of bullocks, nor of lambs, nor of goates.
Isaiah 1:12	When ye come to appeare before me, who required this of your hands to tread in my courts?
Isaiah 1:13	Bring no more oblations, in vaine: incense is an abomination vnto me: I can not suffer your newe moones, nor Sabbaths, nor solemne dayes (it is iniquitie) nor solemne assemblies.
Isaiah 1:14	My soule hateth your newe moones and your appointed feastes: they are a burden vnto me: I am weary to beare them.
Isaiah 1:15	And when you shall stretch out your hands, I wil hide mine eyes from you: and though ye make many prayers, I wil not heare: for your hands are full of blood.
Isaiah 1:16	Wash you, make you cleane: take away the euill of your workes from before mine eyes: cease to doe euill.
Isaiah 1:17	Learne to doe well: seeke iudgement, relieue the oppressed: iudge the fatherlesse and defend the widowe.
Isaiah 1:18	Come nowe, and let vs reason together, sayth the Lord: though your sinnes were as crimsin, they shalbe made white as snowe: though they were red like skarlet, they shalbe as wooll.
Isaiah 1:19	If ye consent and obey, ye shall eate the good things of the land.
Isaiah 1:20	But if ye refuse and be rebellious, ye shalbe deuoured with the sword: for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.
Isaiah 1:21	Howe is the faithfull citie become an harlot? it was full of iudgement, and iustice lodged therein, but now they are murtherers.
Isaiah 1:22	Thy siluer is become drosse: thy wine is mixt with water.
Isaiah 1:23	Thy Princes are rebellious and companions of theeues: euery one loueth giftes, and followeth after rewards: they iudge not the fatherlesse, neither doeth the widowes cause come before them.
Isaiah 1:24	Therefore sayth the Lord God of hostes, the mightie one of Israel, Ah, I will ease me of mine aduersaries, and auenge me of mine enemies.
Isaiah 1:25	Then I will turne mine hand vpon thee, and burne out thy drosse, till it be pure, and take away all thy tinne.
Isaiah 1:26	And I will restore thy iudges as at the first, and thy counsellers as at the beginning: afterward shalt thou be called a citie of righteousnes, and a faithfull citie.
Isaiah 1:27	Zion shall be redeemed in iudgement, and they that returne in her, in iustice.
Isaiah 1:28	And the destruction of the transgressers and of the sinners shalbe together: and they that forsake the Lord, shalbe consumed.
Isaiah 1:29	For they shalbe confounded for the okes, which ye haue desired, and ye shall be ashamed of the gardens, that ye haue chosen.
Isaiah 1:30	For ye shalbe as an oke, whose leafe fadeth: and as a garden that hath no water.
Isaiah 1:31	And the strong shall be as towe, and the maker thereof, as a sparke: and they shall both burne together, and none shall quench them.
Isaiah 2:1	The worde that Isaiah the sonne of Amoz sawe vpon Iudah and Ierusalem.
Isaiah 2:2	It shall be in the last dayes, that the mountaine of the house of the Lord shalbe prepared in the top of the mountaines, and shall be exalted aboue the hilles, and all nations shall flowe vnto it.
Isaiah 2:3	And many people shall go, and say, Come, and let vs go vp to the mountaine of the Lord, to the house of the God of Iaakob, and hee will teach vs his wayes, and we will walke in his paths: for the Lawe shall go foorth of Zion, and the worde of the Lord from Ierusalem,
Isaiah 2:4	And he shall iudge among the nations, and rebuke many people: they shall breake their swords also into mattocks, and their speares into siethes: nation shall not lift vp a sworde against nation, neither shall they learne to fight any more.
Isaiah 2:5	O house of Iaakob, come ye, and let vs walke in the Lawe of the Lord.
Isaiah 2:6	Surely thou hast forsaken thy people, the house of Iaakob, because they are full of the East maners, and are sorcerers as the Philistims, and abound with strange children.
Isaiah 2:7	Their land also was full of siluer and golde, and there was none ende of their treasures: and their land was full of horses, and their charets were infinite.
Isaiah 2:8	Their land also was full of idols: they worshipped the worke of their owne hands, which their owne fingers haue made.
Isaiah 2:9	And a man bowed himselfe, and a man humbled himselfe: therefore spare them not.
Isaiah 2:10	Enter into the rocke, and hide thee in the dust from before the feare of the Lord, and from the glory of his maiestie.
Isaiah 2:11	The hie looke of man shall be humbled, and the loftinesse of men shalbe abased, and the Lord onely shall be exalted in that day.
Isaiah 2:12	For the day of the Lord of hostes is vpon all the proude and hautie, and vpon all that is exalted: and it shalbe made lowe.
Isaiah 2:13	Euen vpon all the cedars of Lebanon, that are hie and exalted, and vpon all the okes of Bashan,
Isaiah 2:14	And vpon all the hie mountaines, and vpon all the hilles that are lifted vp,
Isaiah 2:15	And vpon euery hie tower, and vpon euery strong wall,
Isaiah 2:16	And vpon all the shippes of Tarshish, and vpon all pleasant pictures.
Isaiah 2:17	And the hautinesse of men shalbe brought low, and the loftinesse of men shalbe abased, and the Lord shall onely be exalted in that day.
Isaiah 2:18	And the idoles will he vtterly destroy.
Isaiah 2:19	Then they shall goe into the holes of the rockes, and into the caues of the earth, from before the feare of the Lord, and from the glory of his maiestie, when he shall arise to destroy the earth.
Isaiah 2:20	At that day shall man cast away his siluer idoles, and his golden idoles (which they had made themselues to worship them) to the mowles and to the backes,
Isaiah 2:21	To goe into the holes of the rockes, and into the toppes of the ragged rockes from before the feare of the Lord, and from the glory of his maiestie, when he shall rise to destroy the earth.
Isaiah 2:22	Cease you from the man whose breath is in his nostrels: for wherein is he to be esteemed?
Isaiah 3:1	For lo, the Lord God of hostes will take away from Ierusalem and from Iudah the stay and the strength: euen all the staye of bread, and all the stay of water,
Isaiah 3:2	The strong man, and the man of warre, the iudge and the prophet, the prudent and the aged,
Isaiah 3:3	The captaine of fiftie, and the honourable, and the counseller, and the cunning artificer, and the eloquent man.
Isaiah 3:4	And I will appoint children to bee their princes, and babes shall rule ouer them.
Isaiah 3:5	The people shalbe oppressed one of another, and euery one by his neighbour: the children shall presume against the ancient, and the vile against the honourable.
Isaiah 3:6	When euery one shall take holde of his brother of the house of his father, and say, Thou hast clothing: thou shalt bee our prince, and let this fall be vnder thine hand.
Isaiah 3:7	In that day hee shall sweare, saying, I cannot bee an helper: for there is no bread in mine house, nor clothing: therefore make me no prince of the people.
Isaiah 3:8	Doubtlesse Ierusalem is fallen, and Iudah is fallen downe, because their tongue and workes are against the Lord, to prouoke the eyes of his glory.
Isaiah 3:9	The triall of their countenance testifieth against them, yea, they declare their sinnes as Sodom, they hide them not. Wo be vnto their soules: for they haue rewarded euil vnto themselues.
Isaiah 3:10	Say ye, Surely it shalbe well with the iust: for they shall eate the fruite of their workes.
Isaiah 3:11	Woe be to the wicked, it shalbe euill with him: for the reward of his handes shalbe giuen him.
Isaiah 3:12	Children are extortioners of my people, and women haue rule ouer them: O my people, they that leade thee, cause thee to erre, and destroy the way of thy paths.
Isaiah 3:13	The Lord standeth vp to pleade, yea, hee standeth to iudge the people.
Isaiah 3:14	The Lord shall enter into iudgement with the Ancients of his people and the princes thereof: for ye haue eaten vp the vineyarde: the spoyle of the poore is in your houses.
Isaiah 3:15	What haue ye to do, that ye beate my people to pieces, and grinde the faces of the poore, saith the Lord, euen the Lord of hoasts?
Isaiah 3:16	The Lord also saith, Because the daughters of Zion are hautie, and walke with stretched out neckes, and with wandering eyes, walking and minsing as they goe, and making a tinkeling with their feete,
Isaiah 3:17	Therefore shall the Lord make the heades of the daughters of Zion balde, and the Lord shall discouer their secrete partes.
Isaiah 3:18	In that day shall the Lord take away the ornament of the slippers, and the calles, and the round tyres,
Isaiah 3:19	The sweete balles, and the brasselets, and the bonnets,
Isaiah 3:20	The tyres of the head, and the sloppes, and the head bandes, and the tablets, and the earings,
Isaiah 3:21	The rings and the mufflers,
Isaiah 3:22	The costly apparell and the vailes, and the wimples, and the crisping pinnes,
Isaiah 3:23	And the glasses and the fine linen, and the hoodes, and the launes.
Isaiah 3:24	And in steade of sweete sauour, there shall be stinke, and in steade of a girdle, a rent, and in steade of dressing of the heare, baldnesse, and in steade of a stomacher, a girding of sackecloth, and burning in steade of beautie.
Isaiah 3:25	Thy men shall fall by the sworde, and thy strength in the battell.
Isaiah 3:26	Then shall her gates mourne and lament, and she, being desolate, shall sit vpon the ground.
Isaiah 4:1	And in that day shall seuen women take hold of one man, saying, Wee will eate our owne bread, and we wil weare our owne garments: onely let vs bee called by thy name, and take away our reproche.
Isaiah 4:2	In that day shall the budde of the Lord bee beautifull and glorious, and the fruite of the earth shalbe excellent and pleasant for them that are escaped of Israel.
Isaiah 4:3	Then hee that shalbe left in Zion, and hee that shall remaine in Ierusalem, shalbe called holy, and euery one shalbe written among the liuing in Ierusalem,
Isaiah 4:4	When the Lord shall wash the filthines of the daughters of Zion, and purge the blood of Ierusalem out of the middes thereof by the spirite of iudgement, and by the spirit of burning.
Isaiah 4:5	And the Lord shall create vpon euery place of mount Zion, and vpon the assemblies thereof, a cloude and smoke by day, and the shining of a flaming fire by night: for vpon all the glory shall be a defence.
Isaiah 4:6	And a couering shalbe for a shadow in the day for the heate, and a place of refuge and a couert for the storme and for the raine.
Isaiah 5:1	Now will I sing to my beloued a song of my beloued to his vineyarde, My beloued had a vineyarde in a very fruitefull hill,
Isaiah 5:2	And hee hedged it, and gathered out the stones of it, and he planted it with the best plants, and hee builte a towre in the middes thereof, and made a wine presse therein: then hee looked that it should bring foorth grapes: but it brought foorth wilde grapes.
Isaiah 5:3	Now therefore, O inhabitants of Ierusalem and men of Iudah, iudge, I pray you, betweene me, and my vineyarde.
Isaiah 5:4	What coulde I haue done any more to my vineyard that I haue not done vnto it? why haue I looked that it should bring foorth grapes, and it bringeth foorth wilde grapes?
Isaiah 5:5	And nowe I will tell you what I will do to my vineyarde: I will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be eaten vp: I will breake the wall thereof, and it shall be troden downe:
Isaiah 5:6	And I will laye it waste: it shall not be cut, nor digged, but briers, and thornes shall growe vp: I will also commande the cloudes that they raine no raine vpon it.
Isaiah 5:7	Surely the vineyard of the Lord of hostes is the house of Israel, and the men of Iudah are his pleasant plant, and hee looked for iudgement, but beholde oppression: for righteousnesse, but beholde a crying.
Isaiah 5:8	Woe vnto them that ioyne house to house, and laye fielde to fielde, till there bee no place, that ye may be placed by your selues in the mids of the earth.
Isaiah 5:9	This is in mine cares, saith the Lord of hostes. Surely many houses shall be desolate, euen great, and faire without inhabitant.
Isaiah 5:10	For ten acres of vines shall yelde one bath, and the seede of an homer shall yelde an ephah.
Isaiah 5:11	Wo vnto them, that rise vp early to follow drunkennes, and to them that continue vntill night, till the wine doe inflame them.
Isaiah 5:12	And the harpe and viole, timbrel, and pipe, and wine are in their feastes: but they regard not the worke of the Lord, neither consider the worke of his handes.
Isaiah 5:13	Therefore my people is gone into captiuitie, because they had no knowledge, and the glorie thereof are men famished, and the multitude thereof is dried vp with thirst.
Isaiah 5:14	Therefore hell hath inlarged it selfe, and hath opened his mouth, without measure, and their glorie, and their multitude, and their pompe, and hee that reioyceth among them, shall descend into it.
Isaiah 5:15	And man shalbe brought downe, and man shalbe humbled, euen the eyes of the proude shalbe humbled.
Isaiah 5:16	And the Lord of hostes shalbe exalted in iudgement, and the holy God shalbe sanctified in iustice.
Isaiah 5:17	Then shall the lambes feede after their maner, and the strangers shall eate the desolate places of the fat.
Isaiah 5:18	Woe vnto them, that draw iniquitie with cordes of vanitie, and sinne, as with cart ropes:
Isaiah 5:19	Which say, Let him make speede: let him hasten his worke, that wee may see it: and let the counsell of the holy one of Israel draw neere and come, that we may knowe it.
Isaiah 5:20	Woe vnto them that speake good of euill, and euill of good, which put darkenes for light, and light for darkenes, that put bitter for sweete, and sweete for sowre.
Isaiah 5:21	Woe vnto them that are wise in their owne eyes, and prudent in their owne sight.
Isaiah 5:22	Wo vnto them that are mightie to drinke wine, and to them that are strong to powre in strong drinke:
Isaiah 5:23	Which iustifie the wicked for a rewarde, and take away the righteousnesse of the righteous from him.
Isaiah 5:24	Therefore as the flame of fire deuoureth the stubble, and as the chaffe is cosumed of the flame: so their roote shalbe as rottennesse, and their bud shall rise vp like dust, because they haue cast off the Lawe of the Lord of hostes, and contemned the word of the holy one of Israel.
Isaiah 5:25	Therefore is the wrath of the Lord kindled against his people, and hee hath stretched out his hand vpon them, and hath smitten them that the mountaines did tremble: and their carkases were torne in the middes of the streetes, and for all this his wrath was not turned away, but his hande was stretched out still.
Isaiah 5:26	And he will lift vp a signe vnto the nations a farre, and wil hisse vnto them from the ende of the earth: and beholde, they shall come hastily with speede.
Isaiah 5:27	None shall faint nor fall among them: none shall slumber nor sleepe, neither shall the girdle of his loynes be loosed, nor the latchet of his shooes be broken:
Isaiah 5:28	Whose arrowes shall be sharpe, and all his bowes bent: his horse hoofes shall be thought like flint, and his wheeles like a whirlewinde.
Isaiah 5:29	His roaring shalbe like a lyon, and he shall roare like lyons whelpes: they shall roare, and lay holde of the praye: they shall take it away, and none shall deliuer it.
Isaiah 5:30	And in that day they shall roare vpon them, as the roaring of the sea: and if they looke vnto the earth, beholde darkenesse, and sorowe, and the light shalbe darkened in their skie.
Isaiah 6:1	In the yeere of the death of King Vzziah, I saw also the Lord sitting vpon an high throne, and lifted vp, and the lower partes thereof filled the Temple.
Isaiah 6:2	The Seraphims stoode vpon it: euery one had sixe wings: with twaine he couered his face, and with twaine hee couered his feete, and with twaine he did flie.
Isaiah 6:3	And one cryed to another, and sayde, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hostes: the whole world is full of his glory.
Isaiah 6:4	And the lintles of the doore cheekes moued at the voyce of him that cryed, and the house was filled with smoke.
Isaiah 6:5	Then I sayd, Wo is me: for I am vndone, because I am a man of polluted lips, and I dwell in the middes of a people of polluted lips: for mine eyes haue seene the King and Lord of hostes.
Isaiah 6:6	Then flewe one of the Seraphims vnto me with an hote cole in his hand, which he had taken from the altar with the tongs:
Isaiah 6:7	And he touched my mouth, and sayd, Loe, this hath touched thy lips, and thine iniquitie shall be taken away, and thy sinne shalbe purged.
Isaiah 6:8	Also I heard the voyce of the Lord, saying, Whome shall I send? and who shall goe for vs? Then I sayd, Here am I, send me.
Isaiah 6:9	And he sayd, Goe, and say vnto this people, Ye shall heare in deede, but ye shall not vnderstand: ye shall plainely see, and not perceiue.
Isaiah 6:10	Make the heart of this people fatte, make their eares heauie, and shut their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and heare with their eares, and vnderstand with their hearts, and conuert, and he heale them.
Isaiah 6:11	Then sayd I, Lord, howe long? And he answered, Vntill the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land be vtterly desolate,
Isaiah 6:12	And the Lord haue remoued men farre away, and there be a great desolation in the mids of the land.
Isaiah 6:13	But yet in it shalbe a tenth, and shall returne, and shalbe eaten vp as an elme or an oke, which haue a substance in them, when they cast their leaues: so the holy seede shall be the substance thereof.
Isaiah 7:1	And in the dayes of Ahaz, the sonne of Iotham, the sonne of Vzziah king of Iudah, Rezin the King of Aram came vp, and Pekah the sonne of Remaliah King of Israel, to Ierusalem to fight against it, but he could not ouercome it.
Isaiah 7:2	And it was tolde the house of Dauid, saying, Aram is ioyned with Ephraim: therefore his heart was moued, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the forest are moued by the winde.
Isaiah 7:3	Then sayde the Lord vnto Isaiah, Goe foorth nowe to meete Ahaz (thou and Sheariashub thy sonne) at the ende of the conduit of the vpper poole, in the path of the fullers fielde,
Isaiah 7:4	And say vnto him, Take heede, and be still: feare not, neither be faint hearted for the two tailes of these smoking firebrands, for the furious wrath of Rezin and of Aram, and of Remaliahs sonne:
Isaiah 7:5	Because Aram hath taken wicked counsell against thee, and Ephraim, and Remaliahs sonne, saying,
Isaiah 7:6	Let vs goe vp against Iudah, and let vs waken them vp, and make a breach therein for vs, and set a King in the mids thereof, euen the sonne of Tabeal.
Isaiah 7:7	Thus sayth the Lord God, It shall not stand, neither shall it be.
Isaiah 7:8	For the head of Aram is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin: and within fiue and threescore yeere, Ephraim shalbe destroyed from being a people.
Isaiah 7:9	And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remaliahs sonne. If ye beleeue not, surely ye shall not be established.
Isaiah 7:10	And the Lord spake againe vnto Ahaz, saying,
Isaiah 7:11	Aske a signe for thee of the Lord thy God: aske it, either in the depth beneath or in the height aboue.
Isaiah 7:12	But Ahaz sayd, I wil not aske, neither will I tempt the Lord.
Isaiah 7:13	Then he sayd, Heare you nowe, O house of Dauid, Is it a small thing for you to grieue men, that ye will also grieue my God?
Isaiah 7:14	Therefore the Lord himselfe will giue you a signe. Beholde, the virgine shall conceiue and beare a sonne, and she shall call his name Immanu-el.
Isaiah 7:15	Butter and hony shall he eate, till he haue knowledge to refuse the euill, and to chuse the good.
Isaiah 7:16	For afore the childe shall haue knowledge to eschew the euill, and to chuse the good, the land, that thou abhorrest, shalbe forsaken of both her Kings.
Isaiah 7:17	The Lord shall bring vpon thee, and vpon thy people, and vpon thy fathers house (the dayes that haue not come from the day that Ephraim departed from Iudah) euen the King of Asshur.
Isaiah 7:18	And in that day shall the Lord hisse for the flie that is at the vttermost part of the floods of Egypt, and for the bee which is in the lande of Asshur,
Isaiah 7:19	And they shall come and shall light all in the desolate valleys, and in the holes of the rockes, and vpon all thorny places, and vpon all bushy places.
Isaiah 7:20	In that day shall the Lord shaue with a rasor that is hired, euen by them beyond the Riuer, by the King of Asshur, the head and the heare of the feete, and it shall consume the beard.
Isaiah 7:21	And in the same day shall a man nourish a yong kow, and two sheepe.
Isaiah 7:22	And for the abundance of milke, that they shall giue, hee shall eate butter: for butter and hony shall euery one eate, which is left within the land.
Isaiah 7:23	And at the same day euery place, wherein shalbe a thousand vines, shalbe at a thousand pieces of siluer: so it shalbe for the briers and for the thornes.
Isaiah 7:24	With arrowes and with bowe shall one come thither: because all the land shall be briers and thornes.
Isaiah 7:25	But on all the mountaines, which shalbe digged with the mattocke, there shall not come thither the feare of briers and thornes: but they shalbe for the sending out of bullocks, and for the treading of sheepe.
Isaiah 8:1	Moreover, the Lord sayd vnto me, Take thee a great roll, and write in it with a mans penne, Make speede to the spoyle: haste to the praye.
Isaiah 8:2	Then I tooke vnto me faithfull witnesses to recorde, Vriah the Priest, and Zechariah the sonne of Ieberechiah.
Isaiah 8:3	After, I came vnto the Prophetesse, which conceiued, and bare a sonne. Then sayd the Lord to me, Call his name, Mahershalalhash-baz.
Isaiah 8:4	For before the childe shall haue knowledge to crye, My father, and my mother, he shall take away the riches of Damascus and the spoyle of Samaria, before the King of Asshur.
Isaiah 8:5	And the Lord spake yet againe vnto me, saying,
Isaiah 8:6	Because this people hath refused the waters of Shiloah that runne softly, and reioyce with Rezin, and the sonne of Remaliah,
Isaiah 8:7	Nowe therefore, beholde, the Lord bringeth vp vpon them the waters of the Riuer mightie and great, euen the King of Asshur with all his glory, and he shall come vp vpon all their riuers, and goe ouer all their banks,
Isaiah 8:8	And shall breake into Iudah, and shall ouerflowe and passe through, and shall come vp to the necke, and the stretching out of his wings shall fill the breadth of thy land, O Immanu-el.
Isaiah 8:9	Gather together on heapes, O ye people, and ye shalbe broken in pieces, and hearken all ye of farre countreys: gird your selues, and you shalbe broken in pieces: gird your selues, and you shalbe broken in pieces.
Isaiah 8:10	Take counsell together, yet it shall be brought to nought: pronounce a decree, yet shall it not stand: for God is with vs.
Isaiah 8:11	For the Lord spake thus to me in taking of mine hand, and taught me, that I should not walke in the way of this people, saying,
Isaiah 8:12	Say ye not, A confederacie to all them, to whome this people sayth a confederacie, neither feare you their feare, nor be afrayd of them.
Isaiah 8:13	Sanctifie the Lord of hostes, and let him be your feare, and let him be your dread,
Isaiah 8:14	And he shalbe as a Sanctuarie: but as a stumbling stone, and as a rocke to fall vpon, to both the houses of Israel, and as a snare and as a net to the inhabitants of Ierusalem.
Isaiah 8:15	And many among them shall stumble, and shall fall and shalbe broken and shalbe snared and shalbe taken.
Isaiah 8:16	Binde vp the testimonie: seale vp the Law among my disciples.
Isaiah 8:17	Therefore I will waite vpon the Lord that hath hid his face from the house of Iaakob, and I wil looke for him.
Isaiah 8:18	Beholde, I and the children whome the Lord hath giuen me, are as signes and as wonders in Israel, by the Lord of hostes, which dwelleth in mount Zion.
Isaiah 8:19	And when they shall say vnto you, Enquire at them that haue a spirit of diuination, and at the soothsayers, which whisper and murmure, Should not a people enquire at their God? from the liuing to the dead?
Isaiah 8:20	To the Law, and to the testimonie, if they speake not according to this worde: it is because there is no light in them.
Isaiah 8:21	Then he that is afflicted and famished, shall go to and from in it: and when he shalbe hungry, he shall euen freat himselfe, and curse his King and his gods, and shall looke vpward.
Isaiah 8:22	And when he shall looke to the earth, beholde trouble, and darkenes, vexation and anguish, and he is driuen to darkenes.
Isaiah 9:1	Yet the darkenesse shall not be according to the affliction that it had when at the first hee touched lightly the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, nor afteward when he was more grieuous by the way of the sea beyond Iorden in Galile of the Gentiles.
Isaiah 9:2	The people that walked in darkenes haue seene a great light: they that dwelled in the land of the shadowe of death, vpon them hath the light shined.
Isaiah 9:3	Thou hast multiplied the nation, and not increased their ioye: they haue reioyced before thee according to the ioye in haruest, and as men reioyce when they deuide a spoyle.
Isaiah 9:4	For the yoke of their burthen, and the staffe of their shoulder and the rod of their oppressour hast thou broken as in the day of Midian.
Isaiah 9:5	Surely euery battell of the warriour is with noyse, and with tumbling of garments in blood: but this shall be with burning and deuouring of fire.
Isaiah 9:6	For vnto vs a childe is borne, and vnto vs a Sonne is giuen: and the gouernement is vpon his shoulder, and he shall call his name Wonderfull, Counseller, The mightie God, The euerlasting Father, The prince of peace,
Isaiah 9:7	The increase of his gouernement and peace shall haue none end: he shall sit vpon the throne of Dauid, and vpon his kingdome, to order it, and to stablish it with iudgement and with iustice, from hencefoorth, euen for euer: the zeale of the Lord of hostes will performe this.
Isaiah 9:8	The Lord hath sent a worde into Iaakob, and it hath lighted vpon Israel.
Isaiah 9:9	And all the people shall knowe, euen Ephraim, and the inhabitant of Samaria, that say in the pride and presumption of the heart,
Isaiah 9:10	The brickes are fallen, but we will build it with hewen stones: the wilde figge trees are cut downe, but we will change them into ceders.
Isaiah 9:11	Neuerthelesse the Lord will raise vp the aduersaries of Rezin against him, and ioyne his enemies together.
Isaiah 9:12	Aram before and the Philistims behinde, and they shall deuoure Israel with open mouth: yet for all this his wrath is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah 9:13	For the people turneth not vnto him that smiteth them, neither doe they seeke the Lord of hostes.
Isaiah 9:14	Therefore will the Lord cut off from Israel head and taile, branche and rush in one day.
Isaiah 9:15	The ancient and the honorable man, he is the head: and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the taile.
Isaiah 9:16	For the leaders of the people cause them to erre: and they that are led by them are deuoured.
Isaiah 9:17	Therefore shall the Lord haue no pleasure in their yong men, neither will he haue compassion of their fatherlesse and of their widowes: for euery one is an hypocrite and wicked, and euery mouth speaketh follie: yet for all this his wrath is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out stil.
Isaiah 9:18	For wickednesse burneth as a fire: it deuoureth the briers and the thornes and will kindle in the thicke places of the forest: and they shall mount vp like the lifting vp of smoke.
Isaiah 9:19	By the wrath of the Lord of hostes shall the land be darkened, and the people shall be as the meate of ye fire: no man shall spare his brother.
Isaiah 9:20	And he shall snatch at the right hand, and be hungrie: and he shall eate on the left hand, and shall not be satisfied: euery one shall eate ye flesh of his owne arme.
Isaiah 9:21	Manasseh, Ephraim: and Ephraim Manasseh, and they both shall be against Iudah yet for all this his wrath is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah 10:1	Woe vnto them that decree wicked decrees, and write grieuous things,
Isaiah 10:2	To keepe backe ye poore from iudgement, and to take away the iudgement of the poore of my people, that widowes may be their pray, and that they may spoyle the fatherlesse.
Isaiah 10:3	What will ye doe nowe in the day of visitation, and of destruction, which shall come from farre? to whom will ye flee for helpe? and where will ye leaue your glorie?
Isaiah 10:4	Without me euery one shall fall among them that are bound, and they shall fall downe among the slayne: yet for all this his wrath is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah 10:5	O Asshur, the rodde of my wrath: and the staffe in their hands is mine indignation.
Isaiah 10:6	I will sende him to a dissembling nation, and I will giue him a charge against the people of my wrath to take the spoyle and to take the pray, and to treade them vnder feete like the mire in the streete.
Isaiah 10:7	But he thinketh not so, neither doeth his heart esteeme it so: but he imagineth to destroy and to cut off not a fewe nations.
Isaiah 10:8	For he sayeth, Are not my princes altogether Kings?
Isaiah 10:9	Is not Calno as Carchemish? Is not Hamath like Arpad? Is not Samaria as Damascus?
Isaiah 10:10	Like as mine hand hath founde the kingdomes of the idoles, seeing their idoles were aboue Ierusalem, and aboue Samaria:
Isaiah 10:11	Shall not I, as I haue done to Samaria, and to the idoles thereof, so doe to Ierusalem and to the idoles thereof?
Isaiah 10:12	But when the Lord hath accomplished all his worke vpon mount Zion and Ierusalem, I will visite the fruite of the proude heart of the King of Asshur, and his glorious and proud lookes,
Isaiah 10:13	Because he said, By ye power of mine owne hand haue I done it, and by my wisdome, because I am wise: therefore I haue remooued the borders of the people, and haue spoyled their treasures, and haue pulled downe the inhabitants like a valiant man.
Isaiah 10:14	And mine hand hath found as a nest the riches of the people, and as one gathereth egges that are left, so haue I gathered all the earth: and there was none to mooue the wing or to open the mouth, or to whisper.
Isaiah 10:15	Shall the axe boast it selfe against him that heweth therewith? or shall the sawe exalt it selfe against him that moueth it? as if the rod shoulde lift vp it selfe against him that taketh it vp, or the staffe should exalt it selfe, as it were no wood.
Isaiah 10:16	Therefore shall the Lord God of hostes send amog his fat men, leannes, and vnder his glorie he shall kindle a burning, like the burning of fire.
Isaiah 10:17	And the light of Israel shalbe as a fire, and the Holy one thereof as a flame, and it shall burne, and deuoure his thornes and his briers in one day:
Isaiah 10:18	And shall consume the glory of his forest, and of his fruitfull fieldes both soule and flesh: and he shalbe as ye fainting of a standard bearer.
Isaiah 10:19	And the rest of the trees of his forest shalbe fewe, that a childe may tell them.
Isaiah 10:20	And at that day shall the remnant of Israel, and such as are escaped of the house of Iaakob, stay no more vpon him that smote them, but shall stay vpon ye Lord, ye Holy one of Israel in trueth.
Isaiah 10:21	The remnant shall returne, euen the remnant of Iaakob vnto the mightie God.
Isaiah 10:22	For though thy people, O Israel, be as the sand of the sea, yet shall the remnant of them returne. The consumption decreed shall ouerflow with righteousnesse.
Isaiah 10:23	For the Lord God of hostes shall make the consumption, euen determined, in the middes of all the land.
Isaiah 10:24	Therefore thus saith ye Lord God of hostes, O my people, that dwellest in Zion, be not afraid of Asshur: he shall smite thee with a rod, and shall lift vp his staffe against thee after the maner of Egypt:
Isaiah 10:25	But yet a very litle time, and the wrath shall be consumed, and mine anger in their destruction.
Isaiah 10:26	And ye Lord of hostes shall raise vp a scourge for him, according to the plague of Midian in the rocke Oreb: and as his staffe was vpon the Sea, so he will lift it vp after the maner of Egypt.
Isaiah 10:27	And at that day shall his burden be taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy necke: and the yoke shalbe destroied because of the anoynting.
Isaiah 10:28	He is come to Aiath: he is passed into Migron: at Michmash shall he lay vp his armour.
Isaiah 10:29	They haue gone ouer the foorde: they lodged in the lodging at Geba: Ramah is afraide: Gibeah of Saul is fled away.
Isaiah 10:30	Lift vp thy voyce, O daughter Gallim, cause Laish to heare, O poore Anathoth.
Isaiah 10:31	Madmenah is remoued: the inhabitants of Gebim haue gathered themselues together.
Isaiah 10:32	Yet there is a time that he will stay at Nob: he shall lift vp his hand towarde the mount of the daughter Zion, the hill of Ierusalem.
Isaiah 10:33	Beholde, the Lord God of hostes shall cut off the bough with feare, and they of high stature shalbe cut off, and the hie shalbe humbled.
Isaiah 10:34	And he shall cut away the thicke places of the forest with yron, and Lebanon shall haue a mightie fall.
Isaiah 11:1	But there shall come a rodde foorth of the stocke of Ishai, and a grasse shall growe out of his rootes.
Isaiah 11:2	And the Spirite of the Lord shall rest vpon him: the Spirite of wisedome and vnderstanding, the Spirite of counsell and strength, the Spirite of knowledge, and of the feare of the Lord,
Isaiah 11:3	And shall make him prudent in the feare of the Lord: for he shall not iudge after the sight of his eies, neither reproue by ye hearing of his eares.
Isaiah 11:4	But with righteousnesse shall he iudge the poore, and with equitie shall he reprooue for the meeke of the earth: and he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lippes shall he slay the wicked.
Isaiah 11:5	And iustice shall be ye girdle of his loynes, and faithfulnesse the girdle of his reines.
Isaiah 11:6	The wolfe also shall dwell with the lambe, and the leopard shall lie with the kid, and the calfe, and the lyon, and the fat beast together, and a litle childe shall leade them.
Isaiah 11:7	And the kow and the beare shall feede: their yong ones shall lie together: and the lyon shall eate strawe like the bullocke.
Isaiah 11:8	And the sucking childe shall play vpon the hole of the aspe, and the wained childe shall put his hand vpon the cockatrice hole.
Isaiah 11:9	Then shall none hurt nor destroy in all the mountaine of mine holines: for the earth shalbe full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters that couer the sea.
Isaiah 11:10	And in that day the roote of Ishai, which shall stand vp for a signe vnto the people, the nations shall seeke vnto it, and his rest shall be glorious.
Isaiah 11:11	And in the same day shall the Lord stretche out his hand againe the second time, to possesse the remnant of his people, (which shalbe left) of Asshur, and of Egypt, and of Pathros, and of Ethiopia, and of Elam, and of Shinear, and of Hamath, and of the yles of the sea.
Isaiah 11:12	And he shall set vp a signe to the nations, and assemble the dispersed of Israel, and gather the scattered of Iudah from the foure corners of the worlde.
Isaiah 11:13	The hatred also of Ephraim shall depart, and the aduersaries of Iudah shalbe cut off: Ephraim shall not enuie Iudah, neither shall Iudah vexe Ephraim:
Isaiah 11:14	But they shall flee vpon the shoulders of the Philistims toward the West: they shall spoyle them of the East together: Edom and Moab shall be the stretching out of their hands, and the children of Ammon in their obedience.
Isaiah 11:15	The Lord also shall vtterly destroy the tongue of the Egyptians sea, and with his mightie winde shall lift vp his hand ouer the riuer, and shall smite him in his seuen streames, and cause men to walke therein with shooes.
Isaiah 11:16	And there shalbe a path to the remnant of his people, which are left of Asshur, like as it was vnto Israel in the day that he came vp out of the land of Egypt.
Isaiah 12:1	And thou shalt say in that day, O Lord, I will prayse thee: though thou wast angrie with me, thy wrath is turned away, and thou comfortest me.
Isaiah 12:2	Beholde, God is my saluation: I will trust, and will not feare: for ye Lord God is my strength and song: he also is become my saluation.
Isaiah 12:3	Therefore with ioy shall ye drawe waters out of the welles of saluation.
Isaiah 12:4	And ye shall say in that day, Prayse the Lord: call vpon his Name: declare his workes among the people: make mention of them, for his Name is exalted.
Isaiah 12:5	Sing vnto the Lord, for he hath done excellent things: this is knowen in all the worlde.
Isaiah 12:6	Cry out, and shoute, O inhabitant of Zion: for great is ye holy one of Israel in the middes of thee.
Isaiah 13:1	The burden of Babel, which Isaiah the sonne of Amoz did see.
Isaiah 13:2	Lift vp a standard vpon the hie mountaine: lift vp the voyce vnto them: wagge the hand, that they may goe into the gates of the nobles.
Isaiah 13:3	I haue commanded them, that I haue sanctified: and I haue called ye mightie to my wrath, and them that reioyce in my glorie.
Isaiah 13:4	The noyse of a multitude is in the mountaines, like a great people: a tumultuous voyce of the kingdomes of the nations gathered together: the Lord of hostes nombreth the hoste of the battell.
Isaiah 13:5	They come from a farre countrey, from the end of the heauen: euen the Lord with the weapons of his wrath to destroy the whole land.
Isaiah 13:6	Howle you, for the day of the Lord is at hande: it shall come as a destroier from the Almightie.
Isaiah 13:7	Therefore shall all hands be weakened, and all mens hearts shall melt,
Isaiah 13:8	And they shalbe afraid: anguish and sorowe shall take them, and they shall haue paine, as a woman that trauaileth: euery one shall be amased at his neighbour, and their faces shalbe like flames of fire.
Isaiah 13:9	Beholde, the day of the Lord commeth, cruel, with wrath and fierce anger to lay the land wast: and he shall destroy the sinners out of it.
Isaiah 13:10	For the starres of heauen and the planets thereof shall not giue their light: the sunne shalbe darkened in his going foorth, and the moone shall not cause her light to shine.
Isaiah 13:11	And I will visite the wickednes vpon the worlde, and their iniquitie vpon the wicked, and I wil cause the arrogancie of the proud to cease, and will cast downe the pride of tyrants.
Isaiah 13:12	I will make a man more precious then fine golde, euen a man aboue the wedge of golde of Ophir.
Isaiah 13:13	Therefore I will shake the heauen, and the earth shall remooue out of her place in the wrath of the Lord of hostes, and in the day of his fierce anger.
Isaiah 13:14	And it shall be as a chased doe, and as a sheepe that no man taketh vp. euery man shall turne to his owne people, and flee eche one to his owne lande.
Isaiah 13:15	Euery one that is founde, shall be striken through: and whosoeuer ioyneth himselfe, shall fal by the sworde.
Isaiah 13:16	Their children also shall be broken in pieces before their eyes: their houses shall be spoiled, and their wiues rauished.
Isaiah 13:17	Beholde, I will stirre vp the Medes against them, which shall not regarde siluer, nor be desirous of golde.
Isaiah 13:18	With bowes also shall they destroy ye children, and shall haue no compassion vpon the fruit of the wombe, and their eies shall not spare the children.
Isaiah 13:19	And Babel the glorie of kingdomes, the beautie and pride of the Chaldeans, shall be as the destruction of God in Sodom and Gomorah.
Isaiah 13:20	It shall not bee inhabited for euer, neither shall it be dwelled in from generation to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch his tents there, neither shall the shepheardes make their foldes there.
Isaiah 13:21	But Ziim shall lodge there, and their houses shall be ful of Ohim: Ostriches shall dwel there, and the Satyrs shall dance there.
Isaiah 13:22	And Iim shall crie in their palaces, and dragons in their pleasant palaces: and the time thereof is readie to come, and the daies thereof shall not be prolonged.
Isaiah 14:1	For the Lord wil haue compassion of Iaakob, and wil yet chuse Israel, and cause them to rest in their owne lande: and the stranger shall ioyne him selfe vnto them, and they shall cleaue to the house of Iaakob.
Isaiah 14:2	And the people shall receiue them and bring them to their owne place, and the house of Israel shall possesse them in the land of the Lord, for seruants and handmaids: and they shall take them prisoners, whose captiues they were, and haue rule ouer their oppressours.
Isaiah 14:3	And in that day when the Lord shall giue thee rest from thy sorrow, and from thy feare, and from the sore bodage, wherein thou didest serue,
Isaiah 14:4	Then shalt thou take vp this prouerbe against the King of Babel, and say, Howe hath the oppressor ceased? and the gold thirsty Babel rested?
Isaiah 14:5	The Lord hath broken the rodde of the wicked, and the scepter of the rulers:
Isaiah 14:6	Which smote the people in anger with a continuall plague, and ruled the nations in wrath: if any were persecuted, he did not let.
Isaiah 14:7	The whole worlde is at rest and is quiet: they sing for ioye.
Isaiah 14:8	Also the firre trees reioyced of thee, and the cedars of Lebanon, saying, Since thou art laid downe, no hewer came vp against vs.
Isaiah 14:9	Hel beneath is mooued for thee to meete thee at thy comming, raising vp the deade for thee, euen all the princes of the earth, and hath raised from their thrones all the Kinges of the nations.
Isaiah 14:10	All they shall crie, and saie vnto thee, Art thou become weake also as we? art thou become like vnto vs?
Isaiah 14:11	Thy pompe is brought downe to ye graue, and the sounde of thy violes: the worme is spred vnder thee, and the wormes couer thee.
Isaiah 14:12	How art thou fallen from heauen, O Lucifer, sonne of the morning? and cutte downe to the grounde, which didest cast lottes vpon the nations?
Isaiah 14:13	Yet thou saidest in thine heart, I will ascende into heauen, and exalt my throne aboue beside the starres of God: I will sitte also vpon the mount of the Congregation in the sides of the North.
Isaiah 14:14	I wil ascend aboue ye height of the cloudes, and I will be like the most high.
Isaiah 14:15	But thou shalt bee brought downe to the graue, to the sides of the pit.
Isaiah 14:16	They that see thee, shall looke vpon thee and consider thee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, and that did shake the kingdomes?
Isaiah 14:17	He made the worlde as a wildernesse, and destroied the cities thereof, and opened not the house of his prisoners.
Isaiah 14:18	All the Kings of the nations, euen they all sleepe in glorie, euery one in his owne house.
Isaiah 14:19	But thou art cast out of thy graue like an abominable branch: like the raiment of those that are slaine, and thrust thorowe with a sword, which goe downe to the stones of the pit, as a carkeise troden vnder feete.
Isaiah 14:20	Thou shalt not be ioyned with them in the graue, because thou hast destroied thine owne lande, and slaine thy people: the seede of the wicked shall not be renoumed for euer.
Isaiah 14:21	Prepare a slaughter for his children, for the iniquitie of their fathers: let them not rise vp nor possesse the land, nor fil the face of the world with enemies.
Isaiah 14:22	For I wil rise vp against them (sayth the Lord of hostes) and will cut off from Babel the name and the remnant and the sonne, and the nephew, sayth the Lord:
Isaiah 14:23	And I wil make it a possession to ye hedgehogge, and pooles of water, and I will sweepe it with the besome of destruction, sayeth the Lord of hostes.
Isaiah 14:24	The Lord of hostes hath sworne, saying, Surely like as I haue purposed, so shall it come to passe, and as I haue consulted, it shall stand:
Isaiah 14:25	That I will breake to pieces Asshur in my land, and vpon my mountaines will I treade him vnder foote: so that his yoke shall depart from them, and his burden shall be taken from off their shoulder.
Isaiah 14:26	This is the counsell that is consulted vpon the whole worlde, and this is the hande stretched out ouer all the nations,
Isaiah 14:27	Because the Lord of hostes hath determined it, and who shall disanull it? and his hande is stretched out, and who shall turne it away?
Isaiah 14:28	In the yeere that King Ahaz died, was this burden.
Isaiah 14:29	Reioyce not, (thou whole Palestina) because the rod of him that did beat thee, is broken for out of the serpents roote shall come forth a cockatrise, and the fruit therof shalbe a firy flying serpent.
Isaiah 14:30	For the first borne of the poore shall be fed, and the needie shall lie downe in safetie: and I will kill thy roote with famine, and it shall slay thy remnant.
Isaiah 14:31	Howle, O gate, crie, O citie: thou whole lande of Palestina art dissolued, for there shall come from the North a smoke, and none shalbe alone, at his time appointed.
Isaiah 14:32	What shall then one answere the messengers of the Gentiles? That the Lord hath stablished Zion, and the poore of his people shall trust in it.
Isaiah 15:1	The burden of Moab. Surely Ar of Moab was destroied, and brought to silece in a night: surely Kir of Moab was destroied, and brought to silence in a night.
Isaiah 15:2	He shall goe vp to the temple, and to Dibon to the hie places to weepe: for Nebo and for Medeba shall Moab howle: vpon all their heades shalbe baldnesse, and euery beard shauen.
Isaiah 15:3	In their streetes shall they bee gilded with sackecloth: on the toppes of their houses, and in their streetes euery one shall howle, and come downe with weeping.
Isaiah 15:4	And Heshbon shall crie, and Elealeh: their voyce shall bee heard vnto Iahaz: therefore the warriers of Moab shall showt: the soule of euery one shall lament in him selfe.
Isaiah 15:5	Mine heart shall crie for Moab: his fugitiues shall flee vnto Zoar, an heiffer of three yere olde: for they shall goe vp with weeping by the mounting vp of Luhith: and by the way of Horonaim they shall raise vp a crie of destruction.
Isaiah 15:6	For the waters of Nimrim shall be dried vp: therefore the grasse is withered, the herbes consumed, and there was no greene herbe.
Isaiah 15:7	Therefore what euery man hath left, and their substance shall they beare to the brooke of the willowes.
Isaiah 15:8	For the crie went round about the borders of Moab: and the howling thereof vnto Eglaim, and the skriking thereof vnto Beer Elim,
Isaiah 15:9	Because the waters of Dimon shall be full of blood: for I will bring more vpon Dimon, euen lyons vpon him that escapeth of Moab, and to the remnant of the land.
Isaiah 16:1	Send yee a lambe to the ruler of the worlde from the rocke of the wildernesse, vnto the mountaine of the daughter Zion.
Isaiah 16:2	For it shall be as a birde that flieth, and a nest forsaken: the daughters of Moab shall be at the foordes of Arnon.
Isaiah 16:3	Gather a cousel, execute iudgement: make thy shadowe as the night in the midday: hide them that are chased out: bewray not him that is fled.
Isaiah 16:4	Let my banished dwell with thee: Moab be thou their couert from the face of the destroyer: for the extortioner shall ende: the destroyer shalbe consumed, and the oppressour shall cease out of the land.
Isaiah 16:5	And in mercy shall the throne be prepared, and hee shall sit vpon it in stedfastnesse, in the tabernacle of Dauid, iudging, and seeking iudgement, and hasting iustice.
Isaiah 16:6	We haue heard of the pride of Moab, (he is very proud) euen his pride, and his arrogancie, and his indignation, but his lies shall not be so.
Isaiah 16:7	Therefore shall Moab howle vnto Moab: euery one shall howle: for the foundations of Kirhareseth shall ye mourne, yet they shalbe striken.
Isaiah 16:8	For ye vineyards of Heshbon are cut downe, and the vine of Sibmah: the lordes of the heathen haue broken the principal vines thereof: they are come vnto Iaazer: they wandred in the wildernesse: her goodly branches stretched out them selues, and went ouer the sea.
Isaiah 16:9	Therefore will I weepe with the weeping of Iaazer, and of the vine of Sibmah, O Heshbon: and Elealeh, I will make thee drunke with my teares, because vpon thy sommer fruits, and vpon thy haruest a showting is fallen.
Isaiah 16:10	And gladnes is taken away, and ioy out of the plentifull fielde: and in the vineyardes shall be no singing nor shouting for ioy: the treader shall not tread wine in the wine presses: I haue caused the reioycing to cease.
Isaiah 16:11	Wherefore, my bowels shall sounde like an harpe for Moab, and mine inwarde partes for Ker-haresh.
Isaiah 16:12	And when it shall appeare that Moab shall be wearie of his hie places, then shall hee come to his temple to praie, but he shall not preuaile.
Isaiah 16:13	This is the word that the Lord hath spoken against Moab since that time.
Isaiah 16:14	And nowe the Lord hath spoken, saying, In three yeres, as the yeeres of a hireling, and the glorie of Moab shall be contemned in all the great multitude, and the remnant shalbe very small and feeble.
Isaiah 17:1	The burden of Damascus. Beholde, Damascus is taken away from being a citie, for it shall be a ruinous heape.
Isaiah 17:2	The cities of Aroer shall be forsaken: they shall be for the flockes: for they shall lye there, and none shall make them afraide.
Isaiah 17:3	The munition also shall cease from Ephraim, and the kingdome from Damascus, and the remnant of Aram shall be as the glory of the children of Israel, sayeth the Lord of hostes.
Isaiah 17:4	And in that day the glorie of Iaakob shall be impouerished, and the fatnes of his flesh shalbe made leane.
Isaiah 17:5	And it shalbe as when the haruest man gathereth the corne, and reapeth the eares with his arme, and he shall be as he that gathereth the eares in the valley of Rephaim.
Isaiah 17:6	Yet a gathering of grapes shall be left in it, as the shaking of an oliue tree, two or three beries are in the top of the vpmost boughes, and foure or fiue in the hie branches of the fruite thereof, sayeth the Lord God of Israel.
Isaiah 17:7	At that day shall a man looke to his maker, and his eyes shall looke to the holy one of Israel.
Isaiah 17:8	And hee shall not looke to the altars, the workes of his owne hands, neither shall he looke to those thinges, which his owne fingers haue made, as groues and images.
Isaiah 17:9	In that day shall the cities of their strength be as the forsaking of boughes and branches, which they did forsake, because of the children of Israel, and there shall be desolation.
Isaiah 17:10	Because thou hast forgotten the God of thy saluation, and hast not remembred the God of thy strength, therefore shalt thou set pleasant plantes, and shalt graffe strange vine branches:
Isaiah 17:11	In the day shalt thou make thy plant to growe, and in the morning shalt thou make thy seede to florish: but the haruest shall be gone in the day of possession, and there shalbe desperate sorrowe.
Isaiah 17:12	Ah, the multitude of many people, they shall make a sounde like the noyse of the sea: for the noyse of the people shall make a sounde like the noyse of mightie waters.
Isaiah 17:13	The people shall make a sounde like the noise of many waters: but God shall rebuke them, and they shall flee farre off, and shalbe chased as the chaffe of the mountaines before the winde, and as a rolling thing before the whirlewinde.
Isaiah 17:14	And loe, in the euening there is trouble: but afore the morning it is gone. This is the portion of them that spoyle vs, and the lot of them that robbe vs.
Isaiah 18:1	Oh, the lande shadowing with winges, which is beyond the riuers of Ethiopia,
Isaiah 18:2	Sending ambassadours by the Sea, euen in vessels of reedes vpon the waters, saying, Go, ye swift messengers, to a nation that is scattered abroade, and spoyled, vnto a terrible people from their beginning euen hitherto: a nation by litle and litle, euen troden vnder foote, whose land the floods haue spoyled.
Isaiah 18:3	Al ye the inhabitants of ye world and dwellers in the earth, shall see when he setteth vp a signe in the mountaines, and when he bloweth the trumpet, ye shall heare.
Isaiah 18:4	For so the Lord saide vnto me, I will rest and beholde in my tabernacle, as the heate drying vp the rayne, and as a cloude of dewe in the heate of haruest.
Isaiah 18:5	For afore the haruest when the floure is finished, and the fruite is riping in the floure, then he shall cut downe the branches with hookes, and shall take away, and cut off the boughes:
Isaiah 18:6	They shall be left together vnto the foules of the mountaines, and to the beastes of the earth: for the foule shall sommer vpon it, and euery beast of the earth shall winter vpon it.
Isaiah 18:7	At that time shall a present be brought vnto the Lord of hostes, (a people that is scattered abroade, and spoyled, and of a terrible people from their beginning hitherto, a nation, by litle and litle euen troden vnder foote, whose land the riuers haue spoyled) to the place of the Name of the Lord of hostes, euen the mount Zion.
Isaiah 19:1	The burden of Egypt. Beholde, the Lord rideth vpon a swift cloude, and shall come into Egypt, and the idoles of Egypt shall be moued at his presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the middes of her.
Isaiah 19:2	And I will set the Egyptians against the Egyptians: so euery one shall fight against his brother, and euery one against his neighbour, citie against citie, and kingdome against kingdome.
Isaiah 19:3	And the spirite of Egypt shall faile in the middes of her, and I will destroy their counsell, and they shall seeke at the idoles, and at the sorcerers, and at them that haue spirits of diuination, and at the southsayers.
Isaiah 19:4	And I will deliuer the Egyptians into the hand of the cruell Lordes, and a mightie King shall rule ouer them, sayth the Lord God of hostes.
Isaiah 19:5	Then the waters of the sea shall faile, and the riuers shall be dryed vp, and wasted.
Isaiah 19:6	And the riuers shall goe farre away: the riuers of defence shalbe emptied and dryed vp: the reedes and flagges shall be cut downe.
Isaiah 19:7	The grasse in the riuer, and at the head of the riuers, and all that groweth by the riuer, shall wither, and be driuen away, and be no more.
Isaiah 19:8	The fishers also shall mourne, and all they that cast angle into the riuer, shall lament, and they that spread their nette vpon the waters, shall be weakened.
Isaiah 19:9	Moreouer, they that worke in flaxe of diuers sortes, shall be confounded, and they that weaue nettes.
Isaiah 19:10	For their nettes shalbe broken, and all they, that make pondes, shalbe heauie in heart.
Isaiah 19:11	Surely the princes of Zoan are fooles: the counsell of the wise counselers of Pharaoh is become foolish: how say ye vnto Pharaoh, I am the sonne of the wise? I am the sonne of the ancient Kings?
Isaiah 19:12	Where are nowe thy wise men, that they may tell thee, or may knowe what the Lord of hostes hath determined against Egypt?
Isaiah 19:13	The princes of Zoan are become fooles: the princes of Noph are deceiued, they haue deceiued Egypt, euen the corners of the tribes thereof.
Isaiah 19:14	The Lord hath mingled among them the spirite of errours: and they haue caused Egypt to erre in euery worke thereof, as a drunken man erreth in his vomite.
Isaiah 19:15	Neither shall there be any worke in Egypt, which the head may doe, nor the tayle, ye branch nor the rush.
Isaiah 19:16	In that day shall Egypt be like vnto women: for it shall be afraide and feare because of the moouing of the hand of the Lord of hostes, which he shaketh ouer it.
Isaiah 19:17	And the land of Iudah shall be a feare vnto Egypt: euery one that maketh mention of it, shalbe afraid thereat, because of ye counsell of the Lord of hostes, which he hath determined vpon it.
Isaiah 19:18	In that day shall fiue cities in the lande of Egypt speake the language of Canaan, and shall sweare by the Lord of hostes. one shall be called the citie of destruction.
Isaiah 19:19	In that day shall the altar of the Lord be in the middes of the land of Egypt, and a pillar by the border thereof vnto the Lord.
Isaiah 19:20	And it shall be for a signe and for a witnes vnto the Lord of hostes in the land of Egypt: for they shall crie vnto the Lord, because of the oppressers, and he shall send them a Sauiour and a great man, and shall deliuer them.
Isaiah 19:21	And the Lord shall be knowen of the Egyptians, and the Egyptians shall knowe the Lord in that day, and doe sacrifice and oblation, and shall vowe vowes vnto the Lord, and performe them.
Isaiah 19:22	So ye Lord shall smite Egypt, he shall smite and heale it: for he shall returne vnto ye Lord, and he shall be intreated of them and shall heale them.
Isaiah 19:23	In that day shall there be a path from Egypt to Asshur, and Asshur shall come into Egypt, and Egypt into Asshur: so the Egyptians shall worship with Asshur.
Isaiah 19:24	In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and Asshur, euen a blessing in the middes of the land.
Isaiah 19:25	For the Lord of hostes shall blesse it, saying, Blessed be my people Egypt and Asshur, the worke of mine hands, and Israel mine inheritance.
Isaiah 20:1	In the yeere that Tartan came to Ashdod, (when Sargon King of Asshur sent him) and had fought against Ashdod, and taken it,
Isaiah 20:2	At the same time spake the Lord by ye hand of Isaiah the sonne of Amoz, saying, Goe, and loose the sackecloth from thy loynes, and put off thy shooe from thy foote. And he did so, walking naked and barefoote.
Isaiah 20:3	And the Lord said, Like as my seruant Isaiah hath walked naked, and barefoote three yeeres, as a signe and wonder vpon Egypt, and Ethiopia,
Isaiah 20:4	So shall the King of Asshur take away the captiuitie of Egypt, and the captiuitie of Ethiopia, both yong men and olde men, naked and barefoote, with their buttockes vncouered, to the shame of Egypt.
Isaiah 20:5	And they shall feare, and be ashamed of Ethiopia their expectation, and of Egypt their glory.
Isaiah 20:6	Then shall the inhabitant of this yle say in that day, Behold, such is our expectation, whither we fledde for helpe to be deliuered from the King of Asshur, and howe shall we be deliuered?
Isaiah 21:1	The burden of the desert Sea. As the whirlewindes in the South vse to passe from the wildernesse, so shall it come from the horrible land.
Isaiah 21:2	A grieuous vision was shewed vnto me, The transgressour against a transgressour, and the destroyer against a destroyer. Goe vp Elam, besiege Media: I haue caused all the mourning thereof to cease.
Isaiah 21:3	Therefore are my loynes filled with sorow: sorowes haue taken me as the sorowes of a woman that trauayleth: I was bowed downe when I heard it, and I was amased when I sawe it.
Isaiah 21:4	Mine heart failed: fearefulnesse troubled me: the night of my pleasures hath he turned into feare vnto me.
Isaiah 21:5	Prepare thou the table: watch in the watch towre: eate, drinke: arise, ye princes, anoynt the shielde.
Isaiah 21:6	For thus hath the Lord said vnto me, Go, set a watchman, to tell what he seeth.
Isaiah 21:7	And he sawe a charet with two horsemen: a charet of an asse, and a charet of a camel: and he hearkened and tooke diligent heede.
Isaiah 21:8	And he cryed, A lyon: my lorde, I stand continually vpon ye watche towre in the day time, and I am set in my watche euery night:
Isaiah 21:9	And beholde, this mans charet commeth with two horsemen. And he answered and said, Babel is fallen: it is fallen, and all the images of her gods hath he broken vnto the ground.
Isaiah 21:10	O my threshing, and the corne of my floore. That which I haue heard of the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, haue I shewed vnto you.
Isaiah 21:11	The burden of Dumah. He calleth vnto me out of Seir, Watchman, what was in ye night? Watchman, what was in the night?
Isaiah 21:12	The watchman saide, The morning commeth, and also the night. If yee will aske, enquire: returne and come.
Isaiah 21:13	The burden against Arabia. In the forest of Arabia shall yee tarie all night, euen in the waies of Dedanim.
Isaiah 21:14	O inhabitants of the lande of Tema, bring foorth water to meete the thirstie, and preuent him that fleeth with his bread.
Isaiah 21:15	For they flee from the drawen swords, euen from the drawen sword, and from the bent bowe, and from the grieuousnesse of warre.
Isaiah 21:16	For thus hath the Lord sayd vnto me, Yet a yeere according to the yeeres of an hireling, and all the glorie of Kedar shall faile.
Isaiah 21:17	And the residue of the nomber of ye strong archers of the sonnes of Kedar shall be fewe: for the Lord God of Israel hath spoken it.
Isaiah 22:1	The burden of the valley of vision. What aileth thee nowe that thou art wholy gone vp vnto the house toppes?
Isaiah 22:2	Thou that art full of noise, a citie full of brute, a ioyous citie: thy slaine men shall not bee slaine with sworde, nor die in battell.
Isaiah 22:3	All thy princes shall flee together from the bowe: they shalbe bound: all that shall be found in thee, shall be bound together, which haue fled from farre.
Isaiah 22:4	Therefore said I, Turne away from me: I wil weepe bitterly: labour not to comfort mee for the destruction of the daughter of my people.
Isaiah 22:5	For it is a day of trouble, and of ruine, and of perplexitie by the Lord God of hostes in the valley of vision, breaking downe the citie: and a crying vnto the mountaines.
Isaiah 22:6	And Elam bare the quiuer in a mans charet with horsemen, and Kir vncouered the shield.
Isaiah 22:7	And thy chiefe valleis were full of charets, and the horsemen set themselues in aray against the gate.
Isaiah 22:8	And hee discouered the couering of Iudah: and thou didest looke in that day to the armour of the house of the forest.
Isaiah 22:9	And ye haue seene the breaches of the citie of Dauid: for they were many, and ye gathered the waters of the lower poole.
Isaiah 22:10	And yee nombred the houses of Ierusalem, and the houses haue yee broken downe to fortifie the wall,
Isaiah 22:11	And haue also made a ditche betweene the two walles, for the waters of the olde poole, and haue not looked vnto the maker thereof, neither had respect vnto him that formed it of olde.
Isaiah 22:12	And in that day did the Lord God of hosts call vnto weeping and mourning, and to baldnes and girding with sackecloth.
Isaiah 22:13	And beholde, ioy and gladnes, slaying oxen and killing sheepe, eating flesh, and drinking wine, eating and drinking: for to morowe we shall die.
Isaiah 22:14	And it was declared in ye eares of the Lord of hostes. Surely this iniquitie shall not be purged from you, til ye die, saith the Lord God of hostes.
Isaiah 22:15	Thus sayeth the Lord God of hostes, Goe, get thee to that treasurer, to Shebna, the steward of the house, and say,
Isaiah 22:16	What haste thou to doe here? and whome hast thou here? that thou shouldest here hewe thee out a sepulchre, as he that heweth out his sepulchre in an hie place, or that graueth an habitation for him selfe in a rocke?
Isaiah 22:17	Beholde, the Lord wil carie thee away with a great captiuitie, and will surely couer thee.
Isaiah 22:18	He wil surely rolle and turne thee like a bal in a large countrey: there shalt thou die, and there the charets of thy glory shalbe the shame of thy lordes house.
Isaiah 22:19	And I wil driue thee from thy station, and out of thy dwelling will he destroy thee.
Isaiah 22:20	And in that day will I call my seruant Eliakim the sonne of Hilkiah,
Isaiah 22:21	And with thy garments will I clothe him, and with thy girdle will I strengthen him: thy power also will I commit into his hande, and hee shalbe a father of the inhabitats of Ierusalem, and of the house of Iudah.
Isaiah 22:22	And the key of the house of Dauid will I lay vpon his shoulder: so hee shall open, and no man shall shut: and he shall shut, and no man shall open.
Isaiah 22:23	And I will fasten him as a naile in a sure place, and hee shall be for the throne of glorie to his fathers house.
Isaiah 22:24	And they shall hang vpon him all the glorie of his fathers house, euen of the nephewes and posteritie all small vessels, from the vessels of the cuppes, euen to all the instruments of musike.
Isaiah 22:25	In that day, sayeth the Lord of hostes, shall the naile, that is fastned in the sure place, depart and shall be broken, and fall: and the burden, that was vpon it, shall bee cut off: for the Lord hath spoken it.
Isaiah 23:1	The burden of Tyrus. Howle, yee shippes of Tarshish: for it is destroied, so that there is none house: none shall come from the lande of Chittim: it is reueiled vnto them.
Isaiah 23:2	Be still, yee that dwell in the yles: the marchantes of Zidon, and such as passe ouer the sea, haue replenished thee.
Isaiah 23:3	The seede of Nilus growing by the abundance of waters, and the haruest of the riuer was her reuenues, and she was a marte of the nations.
Isaiah 23:4	Be ashamed, thou Zidon: for the sea hath spoken, euen the strength of the sea, saying, I haue not trauailed, nor brought forth children, neither nourished yong men, nor brought vp virgins.
Isaiah 23:5	When the fame commeth to the Egyptians, they shall be sorie, concerning the rumour of Tyrus.
Isaiah 23:6	Goe you ouer to Tarshish: howle, yee that dwell in the yles.
Isaiah 23:7	Is not this that your glorious citie? her antiquitie is of ancient daies: her owne feete shall leade her afarre off to be a soiourner.
Isaiah 23:8	Who hath decreed this against Tyrus (that crowneth men) whose marchantes are princes? whose chapmen are the nobles of the worlde?
Isaiah 23:9	The Lord of hostes hath decreed this, to staine the pride of all glorie, and to bring to contempt all them that be glorious in the earth.
Isaiah 23:10	Passe through thy lande like a flood to the daughter of Tarshish: there is no more strength.
Isaiah 23:11	He stretched out his hand vpon the sea: he shooke the kingdomes: the Lord hath giuen a commandement concerning the place of marchandise, to destroy the power thereof.
Isaiah 23:12	And he saide, Thou shalt no more reioyce when thou art oppressed: O virgin daughter of Zidon: rise vp, goe ouer vnto Chittim: yet there thou shalt haue no rest.
Isaiah 23:13	Behold the lande of the Caldeans: this was no people: Asshur founded it by the inhabitantes of the wildernesse: they set vp the towers thereof: they raised the palaces thereof and hee brought it to ruine.
Isaiah 23:14	Howle yee shippes of Tarshish, for your strength is destroyed.
Isaiah 23:15	And in that day shall Tyrus bee forgotten seuentie yeeres, (according to the yeeres of one King) at the ende of seuentie yeeres shall Tyrus sing as an harlot.
Isaiah 23:16	Take an harpe and go about the citie: (thou harlot thou hast beene forgotten) make sweete melodie, sing moe songes that thou maiest be remembred.
Isaiah 23:17	And at the ende of seuentie yeres shall the Lord visite Tyrus, and shee shall returne to her wages, and shall commit fornication with all the kingdomes of the earth, that are in the world.
Isaiah 23:18	Yet her occupying and her wages shall bee holy vnto the Lord: it shall not be laied vp nor kept in store, but her marchandise shalbe for them that dwell before the Lord, to eate sufficiently, and to haue durable clothing.
Isaiah 24:1	Behold, the Lord maketh the earth emptie, and hee maketh it waste: hee turneth it vpside downe, and scattereth abrode the inhabitants thereof.
Isaiah 24:2	And there shalbe like people, like Priest, and like seruaunt, like master, like maide, like mistresse, like bier, like seller, like lender, like borower, like giuer, like taker to vsurie.
Isaiah 24:3	The earth shalbe cleane emptied, and vtterly spoiled: for the Lord hath spoken this worde.
Isaiah 24:4	The earth lamenteth and fadeth away: the world is feeble and decaied: the proude people of the earth are weakened.
Isaiah 24:5	The earth also deceiueth, because of the inhabitantes thereof: for they transgressed the lawes: they changed the ordinances, and brake the euerlasting couenant.
Isaiah 24:6	Therefore hath the curse deuoured the earth, and the inhabitantes thereof are desolate. Wherefore the inhabitants of the land are burned vp, and fewe men are left.
Isaiah 24:7	The wine faileth, the vine hath no might: all that were of merie heart, doe mourne.
Isaiah 24:8	The mirth of tabrets ceaseth: the noyse of them that reioyce, endeth: the ioye of the harpe ceaseth.
Isaiah 24:9	They shall not drinke wine with mirth: strong drinke shall be bitter to them that drinke it.
Isaiah 24:10	The citie of vanitie is broken downe: euery house is shut vp, that no man may come in.
Isaiah 24:11	There is a crying for wine in the streetes: al ioy is darkened: the mirth of the world is gone away.
Isaiah 24:12	In the citie is left desolation, and the gate is smitten with destruction.
Isaiah 24:13	Surely thus shall it bee in the middes of the earth, among the people, as the shaking of an oliue tree, and as the grapes when the vintage is ended.
Isaiah 24:14	They shall lift vp their voyce: they shall shout for the magnificence of the Lord: they shall reioyce from the sea.
Isaiah 24:15	Wherefore praise yee the Lord in the valleis, euen the Name of the Lord God of Israel, in the yles of the sea.
Isaiah 24:16	From the vttermost part of the earth wee haue heard praises, euen glory to the iust, and I sayd, My leanesse, my leanesse, woe is mee: the transgressours haue offended: yea, the transgressours haue grieuously offended.
Isaiah 24:17	Feare, and the pitte, and the snare are vpon thee, O inhabitant of the earth.
Isaiah 24:18	And hee that fleeth from the noyse of the feare, shall fall into the pit: and he that commeth vp out of the pit, shall be taken in the snare: for the windowes from on high are open, and the foundations of the earth doe shake.
Isaiah 24:19	The earth is vtterly broken downe: the earth is cleane dissolued: the earth is mooued exceedingly.
Isaiah 24:20	The earth shall reele to and from like a drunken man, and shall be remooued like a tent, and the iniquitie thereof shall be heauie vpon it: so that it shall fall, and rise no more.
Isaiah 24:21	And in that day shall the Lord visite the hoste aboue that is on hie, euen the Kinges of the world that are vpon the earth.
Isaiah 24:22	And they shall be gathered together, as the prisoners in the pit: and they shall be shut vp in the prison, and after many daies shall they be visited.
Isaiah 24:23	Then the moone shall be abashed, and the sunne ashamed, when the Lord of hostes shall reigne in mount Zion and in Ierusalem: and glory shalbe before his ancient men.
Isaiah 25:1	O Lord, thou art my God: I will exalt thee, I will prayse thy Name: for thou hast done wonderfull things, according to the counsels of old, with a stable trueth.
Isaiah 25:2	For thou hast made of a citie an heape, of a strong citie, a ruine: euen the palace of strangers of a citie, it shall neuer be built.
Isaiah 25:3	Therefore shall the mightie people giue glory vnto thee: the citie of the strong nations shall feare thee.
Isaiah 25:4	For thou hast bene a strength vnto the poore, euen a strength to the needie in his trouble, a refuge against the tempest, a shadow against the heate: for the blaste of the mightie is like a storme against the wall.
Isaiah 25:5	Thou shalt bring downe the noyse of the strangers, as the heate in a drie place: he wil bring downe the song of the mightie, as the heate in the shadowe of a cloude.
Isaiah 25:6	And in this mountaine shall the Lord of hostes make vnto all people a feast of fat thinges, euen a feast of fined wines, and of fat thinges full of marow, of wines fined and purified.
Isaiah 25:7	And he will destroy in this mountaine the couering that couereth all people, and the vaile that is spread vpon all nations.
Isaiah 25:8	He wil destroy death for euer: and the Lord God wil wipe away the teares from all faces, and the rebuke of his people will he take away out of all the earth: for the Lord hath spoken it.
Isaiah 25:9	And in that day shall men say, Loe, this is our God: we haue waited for him, and he wil saue vs. This is the Lord, we haue waited for him: we will reioyce and be ioyfull in his saluation.
Isaiah 25:10	For in this mountaine shall the hand of the Lord rest, and Moab shalbe threshed vnder him, euen as strawe is thresshed in Madmenah.
Isaiah 25:11	And he shall stretche out his hande in the middes of them (as he that swimmeth, stretcheth them out to swimme) and with the strength of his handes shall he bring downe their pride.
Isaiah 25:12	The defence also of the height of thy walles shall he bring downe and lay lowe, and cast them to the ground, euen vnto the dust.
Isaiah 26:1	In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Iudah, We haue a strong citie: saluation shall God set for walles and bulwarkes.
Isaiah 26:2	Open ye the gates that the righteous nation, which keepeth the trueth, may enter in.
Isaiah 26:3	By an assured purpose wilt thou preserue perfite peace, because they trusted in thee.
Isaiah 26:4	Trust in the Lord for euer: for in the Lord God is strength for euermore.
Isaiah 26:5	For hee will bring downe them that dwell on hie: the hie citie he will abase: euen vnto the ground wil he cast it downe, and bring it vnto dust.
Isaiah 26:6	The foote shall treade it downe, euen the feete of the poore, and the steppes of the needie.
Isaiah 26:7	The way of the iust is righteousnesse: thou wilt make equall the righteous path of the iust.
Isaiah 26:8	Also we, O Lord, haue waited for thee in the way of thy iudgemets: the desire of our soule is to thy Name, and to the remembrance of thee.
Isaiah 26:9	With my soule haue I desired thee in the night, and with my spirit within mee will I seeke thee in the morning: for seeing thy iudgements are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world shall learne righteousnesse.
Isaiah 26:10	Let mercie bee shewed to the wicked, yet hee will not learne righteousnesse: in the land of vprightnesse will he do wickedly, and will not beholde the maiestie of the Lord.
Isaiah 26:11	O Lord, they will not beholde thine hie hande: but they shall see it, and bee confounded with the zeale of the people, and the fire of thine enemies shall deuoure them.
Isaiah 26:12	Lord, vnto vs thou wilt ordeine peace: for thou also hast wrought all our workes for vs.
Isaiah 26:13	O Lord our God, other lords beside thee, haue ruled vs, but we will remember thee onely, and thy Name.
Isaiah 26:14	The dead shall not liue, neither shall the dead arise, because thou hast visited and scattered them, and destroyed all their memorie.
Isaiah 26:15	Thou hast increased the nation, O Lord: thou hast increased the nation: thou art made glorious: thou hast enlarged all the coastes of the earth.
Isaiah 26:16	Lord, in trouble haue they visited thee: they powred out a prayer when thy chastening was vpon them.
Isaiah 26:17	Like as a woman with childe, that draweth neere to the trauaile, is in sorow, and cryeth in her paines, so haue we bene in thy sight, O Lord.
Isaiah 26:18	We haue coceiued, we haue borne in paine, as though we should haue brought forth winde: there was no helpe in the earth, neither did the inhabitants of the world fall.
Isaiah 26:19	Thy dead men shall liue: euen with my body shall they rise. Awake, and sing, ye that dwel in dust: for thy dewe is as the dew of herbes, and the earth shall cast out the dead.
Isaiah 26:20	Come, my people: enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doores after thee: hide thy selfe for a very litle while, vntill the indignation passe ouer.
Isaiah 26:21	For lo, the Lord commeth out of his place, to visite the iniquitie of the inhabitants of the earth vpon them: and the earth shall disclose her blood, and shall no more hide her slaine.
Isaiah 27:1	In that day the Lord with his sore and great and mightie sword shall visite Liuiathan, that pearcing serpent, euen Liuiathan, that crooked serpent, and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.
Isaiah 27:2	In that daye sing of the vineyarde of redde wine.
Isaiah 27:3	I the Lord doe keepe it: I will water it euery moment: least any assaile it, I will keepe it night and day.
Isaiah 27:4	Anger is not in mee: who would set the briers and the thornes against me in battel? I would go through them, I would burne them together.
Isaiah 27:5	Or will he feele my strength, that he may make peace with me, and be at one with me?
Isaiah 27:6	Hereafter, Iaakob shall take roote: Israel shall florish and growe, and the world shall be filled with fruite.
Isaiah 27:7	Hath hee smitten him as hee smote those that smote him? or is hee slaine according to the slaughter of them that were slaine by him?
Isaiah 27:8	In measure in the branches thereof wilt thou contende with it, when he bloweth with his rough winde in the day of the East winde.
Isaiah 27:9	By this therefore shall the iniquitie of Iaakob be purged, and this is all the fruit, the taking away of his sinne: whe he shall make all the stones of the altars, as chalke stones broken in pieces, that the groues and images may not stand vp.
Isaiah 27:10	Yet the defenced citie shalbe desolate, and the habitation shalbe forsaken, and left like a wildernes. There shall the calfe feede, and there shall he lie, and consume the branches thereof.
Isaiah 27:11	When the boughes of it are drie, they shalbe broken: the women come, and set them on fire: for it is a people of none vnderstading: therefore hee that made them, shall not haue compassion of them, and he that formed them, shall haue no mercie on them.
Isaiah 27:12	And in that day shall the Lord thresh from the chanell of the Riuer vnto the riuer of Egypt, and ye shalbe gathered, one by one, O children of Israel.
Isaiah 27:13	In that day also shall the great trumpet be blowen, and they shall come, which perished in the land of Asshur: and they that were chased into the lande of Egypt, and they shall worship the Lord in the holy Mount at Ierusalem.
Isaiah 28:1	Woe to the crowne of pride, the drunkards of Ephraim: for his glorious beautie shall be a fading flowre, which is vpon the head of the valley of them that be fat, and are ouercome with wine.
Isaiah 28:2	Beholde, the Lord hath a mightie and strong hoste, like a tempest of haile, and a whirlewinde that ouerthroweth, like a tempest of mightie waters that ouerflowe, which throwe to the ground mightily.
Isaiah 28:3	They shall be troden vnder foote, euen the crowne and the pride of the drunkards of Ephraim.
Isaiah 28:4	For his glorious beautie shall be a fading floure, which is vpon the head of the valley of them that be fatte, and as the hastie fruite afore sommer, which when hee that looketh vpon it, seeth it, while it is in his hand, he eateth it.
Isaiah 28:5	In that day shall the Lord of hostes be for a crowne of glory, and for a diademe of beautie vnto the residue of his people:
Isaiah 28:6	And for a spirite of iudgement to him that sitteth in iudgement, and for strength vnto them that turne away the battell to the gate.
Isaiah 28:7	But they haue erred because of wine, and are out of the way by strong drinke: the priest and the prophet haue erred by strong drinke: they are swallowed vp with wine: they haue gone astraye through strong drinke: they faile in vision: they stumble in iudgement.
Isaiah 28:8	For all their tables are full of filthy vomiting: no place is cleane.
Isaiah 28:9	Whome shall he teache knowledge? and whome shall he make to vnderstand the thinges that hee heareth? them that are weyned from the milke, and drawen from the breastes.
Isaiah 28:10	For precept must be vpon precept, precept vpon precept, line vnto line, line vnto line, there a litle, and there a litle.
Isaiah 28:11	For with a stammering tongue and with a strange language shall he speake vnto this people.
Isaiah 28:12	Vnto whome hee saide, This is the rest: giue rest to him that is weary: and this is the refreshing, but they would not heare.
Isaiah 28:13	Therefore shall the worde of the Lord be vnto them precept vpon precept, precept vpon precept, line vnto line, line vnto line, there a litle and there a litle, that they may goe, and fall backward, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken.
Isaiah 28:14	Wherefore, heare the worde of the Lord, ye scornefull men that rule this people, which is at Ierusalem.
Isaiah 28:15	Because ye haue said, We haue made a couenant with death, and with hell are we at agreement: though a scourge runne ouer, and passe through, it shall not come at vs: for we haue made falshood our refuge, and vnder vanitie are we hid,
Isaiah 28:16	Therefore thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I will laye in Zion a stone, a tried stone, a precious corner stone, a sure foundation. Hee that beleeueth, shall not make haste.
Isaiah 28:17	Iudgement also will I laye to the rule, and righteousnesse to the balance, and the haile shall sweepe away the vaine confidence, and the waters shall ouerflowe the secret place.
Isaiah 28:18	And your couenant with death shalbe disanulled, and your agreement with hell shall not stand: when a scourge shall runne ouer and passe through, then shall ye be trode downe by it.
Isaiah 28:19	When it passeth ouer, it shall take you away: for it shall passe through euery morning in the day, and in the night, and there shalbe onely feare to make you to vnderstand the hearing.
Isaiah 28:20	For the bed is streight that it can not suffice, and the couering narowe that one can not wrappe himselfe.
Isaiah 28:21	For the Lord shall stand as in mount Perazim: hee shall be wroth as in the valley of Gibeon, that he may do his worke, his strage worke, and bring to passe his acte, his strange acte.
Isaiah 28:22	Nowe therefore be no mockers, least your bondes increase: for I haue heard of the Lord of hostes a consumption, euen determined vpon the whole earth.
Isaiah 28:23	Hearken ye, and heare my voyce: hearken ye, and heare my speach.
Isaiah 28:24	Doeth the plowe man plowe all the day, to sowe? doeth he open, and breake the clots of his ground?
Isaiah 28:25	When he hath made it plaine, wil he not then sowe the fitches, and sowe cummin, and cast in wheat by measure, and the appointed barly and rye in their place?
Isaiah 28:26	For his God doeth instruct him to haue discretion, and doeth teach him.
Isaiah 28:27	For fitches shall not be threshed with a threshing instrument, neither shall a cart wheele be turned about vpon the cummin: but ye fitches are beaten out with a staffe, and cummin with a rod.
Isaiah 28:28	Bread corne when it is threshed, hee doeth not alway thresh it, neither doeth the wheele of his cart still make a noyse, neither will he breake it with the teeth thereof.
Isaiah 28:29	This also commeth from the Lord of hostes, which is wonderfull in counsell, and excellent in workes.
Isaiah 29:1	Ah altar, altar of the citie that Dauid dwelt in: adde yere vnto yere: let them kill lambs.
Isaiah 29:2	But I wil bring the altar into distresse, and there shalbe heauines and sorowe, and it shall be vnto me like an altar.
Isaiah 29:3	And I wil besiege thee as a circle, and fight against thee on a mount, and will cast vp ramparts against thee.
Isaiah 29:4	So shalt thou be humbled, and shalt speake out of the ground, and thy speach shalbe as out of the dust: thy voyce also shall be out of the ground like him that hath a spirite of diuination, and thy talking shall whisper out of the dust.
Isaiah 29:5	Moreouer, the multitude of thy strangers shalbe like small dust, and the multitude of strong men shalbe as chaffe that passeth away, and it shall be in a moment, euen suddenly.
Isaiah 29:6	Thou shalt be visited of the Lord of hostes with thunder, and shaking, and a great noyse, a whirlewinde, and a tempest, and a flame of a deuouring fire.
Isaiah 29:7	And the multitude of all the nations that fight against the altar, shalbe as a dreame or vision by night: euen all they that make the warre against it, and strong holdes against it, and lay siege vnto it.
Isaiah 29:8	And it shalbe like as an hungry man dreameth, and beholde, he eateth: and when he awaketh, his soule is emptie: or like as a thirsty man dreameth, and loe, he is drinking, and when he awaketh, beholde, he is faint, and his soule longeth: so shall the multitude of all nations be that fight against mount Zion.
Isaiah 29:9	Stay your selues, and wonder: they are blinde, and make you blinde: they are drunken but not with wine: they stagger, but not by strong drinke.
Isaiah 29:10	For the Lord hath couered you with a spirite of slumber, and hath shut vp your eyes: the Prophets, and your chiefe Seers hath he couered.
Isaiah 29:11	And the vision of them all is become vnto you, as the wordes of a booke that is sealed vp, which they deliuer to one that can reade, saying, Reade this, I pray thee. Then shall he say, I can not: for it is sealed.
Isaiah 29:12	And the booke is giuen vnto him that can not reade, saying, Reade this, I pray thee. And he shall say, I can not reade.
Isaiah 29:13	Therefore the Lord sayd, Because this people come neere vnto me with their mouth, and honour me with their lips, but haue remooued their heart farre from me, and their feare toward me was taught by the precept of men,
Isaiah 29:14	Therefore behold, I wil againe doe a marueilous worke in this people, euen a marueilous worke, and a wonder: for the wisdome of their wise men shall perish, and the vnderstanding of their prudent men shalbe hid.
Isaiah 29:15	Wo vnto them that seeke deepe to hide their counsell from the Lord: for their workes are in darkenes, and they say, Who seeth vs? and who knoweth vs?
Isaiah 29:16	Your turning of deuises shall it not be esteemed as the potters clay? for shall the worke say of him that made it, Hee made me not? or the thing formed, say of him that facioned it, He had none vnderstanding?
Isaiah 29:17	Is it not yet but a litle while, and Lebanon shall be turned into Carmel? and Carmel shall be counted as a forest?
Isaiah 29:18	And in that day shall the deafe heare the wordes of the booke, and the eyes of the blinde shall see out of obscuritie, and out of darkenesse.
Isaiah 29:19	The meeke in the Lord shall receiue ioye againe, and the poore men shall reioyce in the holy one of Israel.
Isaiah 29:20	For the cruel man shall cease, and the scornefull shalbe consumed: and all that hasted to iniquitie, shalbe cut off:
Isaiah 29:21	Which made a man to sinne in ye worde, and tooke him in a snare: which reproued them in the gate, and made the iust to fall without cause.
Isaiah 29:22	Therefore thus sayth the Lord vnto the house of Iaakob, euen hee that redeemed Abraham, Iaakob shall not now be confounded, neither now shall his face be pale.
Isaiah 29:23	But when he seeth his children, the worke of mine hands, in the mids of him, they shall sanctifie my Name, and sanctifie the holy one of Iaakob, and shall feare the God of Israel.
Isaiah 29:24	Then they that erred in spirit, shall haue vnderstanding, and they that murmured, shall learne doctrine.
Isaiah 30:1	Wo to the rebellious children, sayth the Lord, that take counsell, but not of me, and couer with a couering, but not by my spirit, that they may lay sinne vpon sinne:
Isaiah 30:2	Which walke forth to goe downe into Egypt (and haue not asked at my mouth) to strengthen them selues with the strength of Pharaoh, and trust in the shadowe of Egypt.
Isaiah 30:3	But the strength of Pharaoh shalbe your shame, and the trust in the shadow of Egypt your confusion.
Isaiah 30:4	For his princes were at Zoan, and his Ambassadours came vnto Hanes.
Isaiah 30:5	They shalbe all ashamed of the people that cannot profite them, nor helpe nor doe them good, but shalbe a shame and also a reproche.
Isaiah 30:6	The burden of the beasts of the South, in a land of trouble and anguish, from whence shall come the yong and olde lyon, the viper and fierie flying serpent against them that shall beare their riches vpon the shoulders of the coltes, and their treasures vpon the bounches of the camels, to a people that cannot profite.
Isaiah 30:7	For the Egyptians are vanitie, and they shall helpe in vaine. Therefore haue I cried vnto her, Their strength is to sit still.
Isaiah 30:8	Now go, and write it before them in a table, and note it in a booke that it may be for the last day for euer and euer:
Isaiah 30:9	That it is a rebellious people, lying children, and children that would not heare the law of the Lord.
Isaiah 30:10	Which say vnto the Seers, See not: and to the Prophets, Prophecie not vnto vs right things: but speake flattering things vnto vs: prophecie errours.
Isaiah 30:11	Depart out of the way: go aside out of the path: cause the holy one of Israel to cease from vs.
Isaiah 30:12	Therefoe thus saith the holy one of Israel, Because you haue cast off this worde, and trust in violence, and wickednes, and stay thereupon,
Isaiah 30:13	Therefore this iniquitie shalbe vnto you as a breach that falleth, or a swelling in an hie wall, whose breaking commeth suddenly in a moment.
Isaiah 30:14	And the breaking thereof is like the breaking of a potters pot, which is broken without pitie, and in the breaking thereof is not found a sheard to take fire out of the hearth, or to take water out of the pit.
Isaiah 30:15	For thus sayd the Lord God, the Holy one of Israel, In rest and quietnes shall ye be saued: in quietnes and in confidence shall be your strength, but ye would not.
Isaiah 30:16	For ye haue sayd, No, but we wil flee away vpon horses. Therefore shall ye flee. We will ride vpon the swiftest. Therefore shall your persecuters be swifter.
Isaiah 30:17	A thousand as one shall flee at the rebuke of one: at the rebuke of fiue shall ye flee, till ye be left as a ship maste vpon the top of a mountaine, and as a beaken vpon an hill.
Isaiah 30:18	Yet therefore will the Lord waite, that he may haue mercy vpon you, and therefore wil he be exalted, that hee may haue compassion vpon you: for the Lord is the God of iudgement. Blessed are all they that waite for him.
Isaiah 30:19	Surely a people shall dwell in Zion, and in Ierusalem: thou shalt weepe no more: he wil certainly haue mercy vpon thee at the voyce of thy crye: when he heareth thee, he wil answere thee.
Isaiah 30:20	And when the Lord hath giuen you the bread of aduersitie, and the water of affliction, thy raine shalbe no more kept backe, but thine eyes shall see thy raine.
Isaiah 30:21	And thine eares shall heare a worde behind thee, saying, This is the way, walke ye in it, when thou turnest to the right hand, and when thou turnest to the left.
Isaiah 30:22	And ye shall pollute the couering of the images of siluer, and the riche ornament of thine images of golde, and cast them away as a menstruous cloth, and thou shalt say vnto it, Get thee hence.
Isaiah 30:23	Then shall hee giue raine vnto thy seede, when thou shalt sowe the ground, and bread of the increase of the earth, and it shalbe fat and as oyle: in that day shall thy cattell be fed in large pastures.
Isaiah 30:24	The oxen also and the yong asses, that till the ground, shall eate cleane prouender, which is winowed with the shoouel and with the fanne.
Isaiah 30:25	And vpon euery hie mountaine, and vpon euery hie hill shall there be riuers and streames of waters, in the day of the great slaughter, when the towers shall fall.
Isaiah 30:26	Moreouer, the light of the moone shall be as the light of the sunne, and the light of the sunne shalbe seuen folde, and like the light of seuen dayes in the day that the Lord shall binde vp the breach of his people, and heale the stroke of their wound.
Isaiah 30:27	Beholde, the Name of the Lord commeth from farre, his face is burning, and the burden thereof is heauy: his lips are full of indignation, and his tongue is as a deuouring fire.
Isaiah 30:28	And his spirit is as a riuer that ouerfloweth vp to the necke: it deuideth asunder, to fanne the nations with the fanne of vanitie, and there shall be a bridle to cause them to erre in the chawes of the people.
Isaiah 30:29	But there shall be a song vnto you as in the night, when solemne feast is kept: and gladnes of heart, as he that commeth with a pipe to goe vnto the mount of the Lord, to the mightie one of Israel.
Isaiah 30:30	And the Lord shall cause his glorious voyce to be heard, and shall declare the lighting downe of his arme with the anger of his countenance, and flame of a deuouring fire, with scattering and tempest, and hailestones.
Isaiah 30:31	For with the voyce of the Lord shall Asshur be destroyed, which smote with the rod.
Isaiah 30:32	And in euery place that ye staffe shall passe, it shall cleaue fast, which the Lord shall lay vpon him with tabrets and harpes: and with battels, and lifting vp of hands shall he fight against it.
Isaiah 30:33	For Tophet is prepared of olde: it is euen prepared for the King: hee hath made it deepe and large: the burning thereof is fire and much wood: the breath of the Lord, like a riuer of brimstone, doeth kindle it.
Isaiah 31:1	Woe vnto them that goe downe into Egypt for helpe, and stay vpon horses, and trust in charets, because they are many, and in horsemen, because they be very strong: but they looke not vnto the holy one of Israel, nor seeke vnto the Lord.
Isaiah 31:2	But he yet is wisest: therefore he wil bring euill, and not turne backe his worde, but he will arise against the house of the wicked, and against the helpe of them that worke vanitie.
Isaiah 31:3	Now the Egyptians are men, and not God, and their horses flesh and not spirite: and when the Lord shall stretch out his hand, the helper shall fall, and hee that is holpen shall fall, and they shall altogether faile.
Isaiah 31:4	For thus hath the Lord spoken vnto me, As the lyon or lyons whelpe roareth vpon his praye, against whom if a multitude of shepheards be called, hee will not be afraide at their voyce, neither will humble him selfe at their noise: so shall the Lord of hostes come downe to fight for mount Zion, and for the hill thereof.
Isaiah 31:5	As birds that flie, so shall the Lord of hostes defend Ierusalem by defending and deliuering, by passing through and preseruing it.
Isaiah 31:6	O ye children of Israel, turne againe, in as much as ye are sunken deepe in rebellion.
Isaiah 31:7	For in that day euery man shall cast out his idoles of siluer, and his idoles of golde, which your handes haue made you, euen a sinne.
Isaiah 31:8	Then shall Asshur fall by the sworde, not of man, neither shall the sworde of man deuoure him, and hee shall flee from the sworde, and his yong men shall faint.
Isaiah 31:9	And he shall go for feare to his towre, and his princes shall be afraide of the standart, sayeth the Lord, whose fire is in Zion, and his fornace in Ierusalem.
Isaiah 32:1	Behold, a King shall reigne in iustice, and the princes shall rule in iudgement.
Isaiah 32:2	And that man shall bee as an hiding place from the winde, and as a refuge for the tempest: as riuers of water in a drie place, and as the shadowe of a great rocke in a weary land.
Isaiah 32:3	The eyes of the seeing shall not be shut, and the eares of them that heare, shall hearken.
Isaiah 32:4	And the heart of the foolish shall vnderstand knowledge, and the tongue of the stutters shalbe ready to speake distinctly.
Isaiah 32:5	A nigard shall no more be called liberall, nor the churle riche.
Isaiah 32:6	But the nigarde will speake of nigardnesse, and his heart will worke iniquitie, and do wickedly, and speake falsely against the Lord, to make emptie the hungrie soule, and to cause the drinke of the thirstie to faile.
Isaiah 32:7	For the weapons of the churle are wicked: hee deuiseth wicked counsels, to vndoe the poore with lying words: and to speake against the poore in iudgement.
Isaiah 32:8	But the liberall man will deuise of liberall things, and he will continue his liberalitie.
Isaiah 32:9	Rise vp, ye women that are at ease: heare my voyce, ye carelesse daughters: hearken to my wordes.
Isaiah 32:10	Yee women, that are carelesse, shall be in feare aboue a yeere in dayes: for the vintage shall faile, and the gatherings shall come no more.
Isaiah 32:11	Yee women, that are at ease, be astonied: feare, O yee carelesse women: put off the clothes: make bare, and girde sackcloth vpon the loynes.
Isaiah 32:12	Men shall lament for the teates, euen for the pleasant fieldes, and for the fruitefull vine.
Isaiah 32:13	Vpon the lande of my people shall growe thornes and briers: yea, vpon all the houses of ioye in the citie of reioysing,
Isaiah 32:14	Because the palace shalbe forsaken, and the noise of the citie shalbe left: the towre and fortresse shalbe dennes for euer, and the delite of wilde asses, and a pasture for flockes,
Isaiah 32:15	Vntill the Spirit be powred vpon vs from aboue, and the wildernes become a fruitfull fielde, and the plenteous fielde be counted as a forest.
Isaiah 32:16	And iudgement shall dwel in the desert, and iustice shall remaine in the fruitfull fielde.
Isaiah 32:17	And the worke of iustice shall bee peace, euen the worke of iustice and quietnesse, and assurance for euer.
Isaiah 32:18	And my people shall dwell in the tabernacle of peace, and in sure dwellings, and in safe resting places.
Isaiah 32:19	When it haileth, it shall fall on the forest, and the citie shall be set in the lowe place.
Isaiah 32:20	Blessed are ye that sowe vpon all waters, and driue thither the feete of the oxe and the asse.
Isaiah 33:1	Woe to thee that spoylest, and wast not spoyled: and doest wickedly, and they did not wickedly against thee: when thou shalt cease to spoyle, thou shalt be spoyled: when thou shalt make an ende of doing wickedly, they shall doe wickedly against thee.
Isaiah 33:2	O Lord, haue mercie vpon vs, wee haue waited for thee: be thou, which waste their arme in the morning, our helpe also in time of trouble.
Isaiah 33:3	At the noise of the tumult, the people fled: at thine exalting the nations were scattered.
Isaiah 33:4	And your spoyle shall be gathered like the gathering of caterpillers: and he shall go against him like the leaping of grashoppers.
Isaiah 33:5	The Lord is exalted: for hee dwelleth on hie: he hath filled Zion with iudgement and iustice.
Isaiah 33:6	And there shall be stabilitie of thy times, strength, saluation, wisdome and knowledge: for the feare of the Lord shalbe his treasure.
Isaiah 33:7	Behold, their messengers shall cry without, and ye ambassadours of peace shall weepe bitterly.
Isaiah 33:8	The pathes are waste: the wayfaring man ceaseth: hee hath broken the couenant: hee hath contemned the cities: he regarded no man.
Isaiah 33:9	The earth mourneth and fainteth: Lebanon is ashamed, and hewen downe: Sharon is like a wildernes, and Bashan is shaken and Carmel.
Isaiah 33:10	Now will I arise, saith the Lord: now will I be exalted, now will I lift vp my selfe.
Isaiah 33:11	Ye shall conceiue chaffe, and bring forth stubble: the fire of your breath shall deuoure you.
Isaiah 33:12	And the people shall be as the burning of lime: and as the thornes cut vp, shall they be burnt in the fire.
Isaiah 33:13	Heare, yee that are farre off, what I haue done, and ye that are neere, know my power.
Isaiah 33:14	The sinners in Zion are afraide: a feare is come vpon the hypocrites: who among vs shall dwel with the deuouring fire? who among vs shall dwell with the euerlasting burnings?
Isaiah 33:15	Hee that walketh in iustice, and speaketh righteous things, refusing gaine of oppression, shaking his handes from taking of gifts, stopping his eares from hearing of blood, and shutting his eyes from seeing euill.
Isaiah 33:16	He shall dwell on hie: his defence shall be the munitions of rockes: bread shalbe giuen him, and his waters shalbe sure.
Isaiah 33:17	Thine eyes shall see the King in his glory: they shall beholde the lande farre off.
Isaiah 33:18	Thine heart shall meditate feare, Where is the scribe? where is the receiuer? where is hee that counted the towres?
Isaiah 33:19	Thou shalt not see a fierce people, a people of a darke speache, that thou canst not perceiue, and of a stammering tongue that thou canst not vnderstande.
Isaiah 33:20	Looke vpon Zion the citie of our solemne feastes: thine eyes shall see Ierusalem a quiet habitation, a Tabernacle that can not be remooued: and the stakes thereof can neuer be taken away, neither shall any of the cordes thereof be broken.
Isaiah 33:21	For surely there the mightie Lord will be vnto vs, as a place of floods and broade riuers, whereby shall passe no shippe with oares, neither shall great shippe passe thereby.
Isaiah 33:22	For the Lord is our Iudge, the Lord is our lawe giuer: the Lord is our King, he will saue vs.
Isaiah 33:23	Thy cordes are loosed: they could not well strengthen their maste, neither coulde they spread the saile: then shall the praye be deuided for a great spoile: yea, the lame shall take away the pray.
Isaiah 33:24	And none inhabitant shall say, I am sicke: the people that dwell therein, shall haue their iniquitie forgiuen.
Isaiah 34:1	Come neere, ye nations and heare, and hearken, ye people: let the earth heare and all that is therein, the world and al that proceedeth thereof.
Isaiah 34:2	For the indignation of the Lord is vpon all nations, and his wrath vpon all their armies: hee hath destroyed them and deliuered them to the slaughter.
Isaiah 34:3	And their slaine shalbe cast out, and their stincke shall come vp out of their bodies, and the mountaines shalbe melted with their blood.
Isaiah 34:4	And all the hoste of heauen shalbe dissolued, and the heauens shall be folden like a booke: and all their hostes shall fall as the leafe falleth from the vine, and as it falleth from the figtree.
Isaiah 34:5	For my sword shalbe drunken in the heauen: beholde, it shall come downe vpon Edom, euen vpon the people of my curse to iudgement.
Isaiah 34:6	The sword of the Lord is filled with blood: it is made fat with the fat and with the blood of the lambes and the goates, with the fat of the kidneis of the rams: for the Lord hath a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter in the land of Edom.
Isaiah 34:7	And the vnicorne shall come downe with them and the heiffers with the bulles, and their lande shalbe drunken with blood, and their dust made fat with fatnesse.
Isaiah 34:8	For it is the day of the Lordes vengeance, and the yeere of recompence for the iudgement of Zion.
Isaiah 34:9	And the riuers thereof shall be turned into pitche, and the dust thereof into brimstone, and the land thereof shalbe burning pitch.
Isaiah 34:10	It shall not be quenched night nor day: the smoke thereof shall goe vp euermore: it shall be desolate from generation to generation: none shall passe through it for euer.
Isaiah 34:11	But the pelicane and the hedgehog shall possesse it, and the great owle, and the rauen shall dwel in it, and he shall stretch out vpon it the line of vanitie, and the stones of emptinesse.
Isaiah 34:12	The nobles thereof shall call to the kingdome, and there shalbe none, and all the princes thereof shalbe as nothing.
Isaiah 34:13	And it shall bring foorth thornes in the palaces thereof, nettles and thistles in the strong holdes thereof, and it shall be an habitation for dragons, and a court for ostriches.
Isaiah 34:14	There shall meete also Ziim and Iim, and the Satyre shall cry to his fellow, and the shricheowle shall rest there, and shall finde for her selfe a quiet dwelling.
Isaiah 34:15	There shall the owle make her nest, and laye, and hatche, and gather them vnder her shadowe: there shall the vultures also bee gathered, euery one with her make.
Isaiah 34:16	Seeke in the booke of the Lord, and reade: none of these shall fayle, none shall want her make: for his mouth hath commanded, and his very Spirit hath gathered them.
Isaiah 34:17	And he hath cast the lot for them, and his hand hath deuided it vnto them by line: they shall possesse it for euer: from generation to generation shall they dwell in it.
Isaiah 35:1	The desert and the wildernes shall reioyce: and the waste ground shalbe glad and florish as the rose.
Isaiah 35:2	It shall florish abundantly and shall greatly reioyce also and ioye: the glory of Lebanon shalbe giuen vnto it: the beautie of Carmel, and of Sharon, they shall see the glory of the Lord, and the excellencie of our God.
Isaiah 35:3	Strengthen the weake handes, and comfort the feeble knees.
Isaiah 35:4	Say vnto them that are fearefull, Bee you strong, feare not: beholde, your God commeth with vengeance: euen God with a recompense, he will come and saue you.
Isaiah 35:5	Then shall the eyes of the blinde be lightened, and the eares of the deafe be opened.
Isaiah 35:6	Then shall ye lame man leape as an hart, and the dumme mans tongue shall sing: for in the wildernes shall waters breake out, and riuers in ye desert.
Isaiah 35:7	And the dry ground shalbe as a poole, and the thirstie (as springs of water in the habitation of dragons: where they lay) shall be a place for reedes and rushes.
Isaiah 35:8	And there shalbe a path and a way, and the way shalbe called holy: the polluted shall not passe by it: for he shalbe with them, and walke in the way, and the fooles shall not erre.
Isaiah 35:9	There shall be no lyon, nor noysome beastes shall ascend by it, neither shall they be found there, that the redeemed may walke.
Isaiah 35:10	Therefore the redeemed of the Lord shall returne and come to Zion with prayse: and euerlasting ioy shall bee vpon their heads: they shall obteine ioye and gladnesse, and sorow and mourning shall flee away.
Isaiah 36:1	Nowe in the fourteenth yeere of King Hezekiah, Saneherib King of Asshur came vp against al the strong cities of Iudah, and tooke them.
Isaiah 36:2	And the King of Asshur sent Rabshakeh from Lachish toward Ierusalem vnto King Hezekiah, with a great hoste, and he stood by ye conduite of the vpper poole in the path of the fullers fielde.
Isaiah 36:3	Then came foorth vnto him Eliakim the sonne of Hilkiah the steward of the house, and Shebna the chanceler, and Ioah the sonne of Asaph the recorder.
Isaiah 36:4	And Rabshakeh sayde vnto them, Tell you Hezekiah, I pray you, Thus sayth the great King, the King of Asshur, What confidence is this, wherein thou trustest?
Isaiah 36:5	I say, Surely I haue eloquence, but counsell and strength are for the warre: on whom then doest thou trust, that thou rebellest against me?
Isaiah 36:6	Loe, thou trustest in this broken staffe of reede on Egypt, whereupon if a man leane, it will goe into his hand, and pearce it: so is Pharaoh King of Egypt, vnto all that trust in him.
Isaiah 36:7	But if thou say to me, We trust in the Lord our God. Is not that he, whose hie places and whose altars Hezekiah tooke downe, and said to Iudah and to Ierusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar?
Isaiah 36:8	Nowe therefore giue hostages to my lorde the King of Asshur, and I wil giue thee two thousand horses, if thou be able on thy part to set riders vpon them.
Isaiah 36:9	For howe canst thou despise any captaine of the least of my lordes seruants? and put thy trust on Egypt for charets and for horsemen?
Isaiah 36:10	And am I now come vp without the Lord to this land to destroy it? The Lord sayd vnto me, Goe vp against this land and destroy it.
Isaiah 36:11	Then sayd Eliakim and Shebna and Ioah vnto Rabshakeh, Speake, I pray thee, to thy seruants in the Aramites language, (for we vnderstand it) and talke not with vs in the Iewes tongue, in the audience of the people that are on the wall.
Isaiah 36:12	Then said Rabshakeh, Hath my master sent me to thy master, and to thee to speake these wordes, and not to the men that sit on the wall? that they may eate their owne doung, and drinke their owne pisse with you?
Isaiah 36:13	So Rabshakeh stood, and cryed with a loude voyce in the Iewes language, and sayd, Heare the wordes of the great King, of the King of Asshur.
Isaiah 36:14	Thus saith the King, Let not Hezekiah deceiue you: for he shall not be able to deliuer you.
Isaiah 36:15	Neither let Hezekiah make you to trust in the Lord, saying, The Lord will surely deliuer vs: this citie shall not be giuen ouer into the hand of the King of Asshur.
Isaiah 36:16	Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus sayth the King of Asshur, Make appointment with me, and come out to me, that euery man may eate of his owne vine, and euery man of his owne fig tree, and drinke euery man the water of his owne well,
Isaiah 36:17	Till I come and bring you to a land like your owne land, euen a land of wheate, and wine, a land of bread and vineyardes,
Isaiah 36:18	Least Hezekiah deceiue you, saying, The Lord wil deliuer vs. Hath any of the gods of the nations deliuered his land out of the hand of the King of Asshur?
Isaiah 36:19	Where is the god of Hamath, and of Arpad? where is the god of Sepharuaim? or howe haue they deliuered Samaria out of mine hand?
Isaiah 36:20	Who is hee among all the gods of these lands, that hath deliuered their countrey out of mine hand, that the Lord should deliuer Ierusalem out of mine hand?
Isaiah 36:21	Then they kept silence, and answered him not a worde: for the Kings commandement was, saying, Answere him not.
Isaiah 36:22	Then came Eliakim the sonne of Hilkiah the steward of the house, and Shebna the chanceller, and Ioah the sonne of Asaph the recorder, vnto Hezekiah with rent clothes, and tolde him the wordes of Rabshakeh.
Isaiah 37:1	And when the King Hezekiah heard it, he rent his clothes, and put on sackcloth and came into the House of the Lord.
Isaiah 37:2	And he sent Eliakim the stewarde of the house, aud Shebna the chanceller, with the Elders of the Priestes, clothed in sackcloth vnto Isaiah the Prophet, the sonne of Amoz.
Isaiah 37:3	And they sayd vnto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This day is a day of tribulation and of rebuke and blasphemie: for the children are come to the birth, and there is no strength to bring foorth.
Isaiah 37:4	If so be the Lord thy God hath heard the wordes of Rabshakeh, whom the King of Asshur his master hath sent to raile on the liuing God, and to reproch him with wordes which the Lord thy God hath heard, then lift thou vp thy prayer for the remnant that are left.
Isaiah 37:5	So the seruants of the King Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
Isaiah 37:6	And Isaiah sayde vnto them, Thus say vnto your master, Thus saith the Lord, Be not afrayd of the wordes that thou hast heard, wherewith the seruants of the king of Asshur haue blasphemed me.
Isaiah 37:7	Beholde, I wil send a blast vpon him, and he shall heare a noyse, and returne to his owne land, and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his owne land.
Isaiah 37:8	So Rabshakeh returned, and found the King of Asshur fighting against Libnah: for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.
Isaiah 37:9	He heard also men say of Tirhakah, King of Ethiopia, Beholde, he is come out to fight against thee: and when he heard it, he sent other messengers to Hezekiah, saying,
Isaiah 37:10	Thus shall ye speake to Hezekiah King of Iudah, saying, Let not thy God deceiue thee, in whom thou trustest, saying, Ierusalem shall not be giuen into the hand of the King of Asshur.
Isaiah 37:11	Beholde, thou hast heard what the Kings of Asshur haue done to all lands in destroying them, and shalt thou be deliuered?
Isaiah 37:12	Haue the gods of the nations deliuered them, which my fathers haue destroyed? as Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of Eden, which were at Telassar?
Isaiah 37:13	Where is the King of Hamath, and the King of Arpad, and the King of the citie of Sepharuaim, Hena and Iuah?
Isaiah 37:14	So Hezekiah receiued the letter of the hand of the messengers and read it, and he went vp into the House of the Lord, and Hezekiah spread it before the Lord.
Isaiah 37:15	And Hezekiah prayed vnto the Lord, saying,
Isaiah 37:16	O Lord of hostes, God of Israel, which dwellest betweene the Cherubims, thou art very God alone ouer all the kingdomes of the earth: thou hast made the heauen and the earth.
Isaiah 37:17	Encline thine eare, O Lord, and heare: open thine eyes, O Lord, and see, and heare all the wordes of Saneherib, who hath sent to blaspheme the liuing God.
Isaiah 37:18	Trueth it is, O Lord, that the Kings of Asshur haue destroyed all lands, and their countrey,
Isaiah 37:19	And haue cast their gods in ye fire: for they were no gods, but the worke of mans hands, euen wood or stone: therefore they destroyed them.
Isaiah 37:20	Nowe therefore, O Lord our God, saue thou vs out of his hand, that all the kingdomes of the earth may knowe, that thou onely art the Lord.
Isaiah 37:21	Then Isaiah the sonne of Amoz sent vnto Hezekiah, saying, Thus sayth the Lord God of Israel, Because thou hast prayed vnto me, concerning Saneherib king of Asshur,
Isaiah 37:22	This is the worde that the Lord hath spoken against him, the virgine, the daughter of Zion, hath despised thee, and laughed thee to scorne: the daughter of Ierusalem, hath shaken her head at thee.
Isaiah 37:23	Whome hast thou railed on and blasphemed? and against whome hast thou exalted thy voyce, and lifted vp thine eyes on hie? euen against the holy one of Israel.
Isaiah 37:24	By thy seruants hast thou railed on the Lord, and sayd, By the multitude of my charets I am come vp to the top of the mountaines to the sides of Lebanon, and will cut downe the hie cedars thereof, and the faire firre trees thereof, and I will goe vp to the heightes of his top and to the forest of his fruitfull places.
Isaiah 37:25	I haue digged and drunke the waters, and with the plant of my feete haue I dryed all the riuers closed in.
Isaiah 37:26	Hast thou not heard howe I haue of olde time made it, and haue formed it long ago? and should I now bring it, that it should be destroyed, and layde on ruinous heapes, as cities defensed?
Isaiah 37:27	Whose inhabitants haue small power, and are afrayd and confounded: they are like the grasse of the field and greene herbe, or grasse on the house tops, or corne blassed afore it be growen.
Isaiah 37:28	But I know thy dwelling, and thy going out, and thy comming in, and thy fury against me.
Isaiah 37:29	Because thou ragest against me, and thy tumult is come vnto mine eares, therefore will I put mine hooke in thy nostrels, and my bridle in thy lips, and wil bring thee backe againe the same way thou camest.
Isaiah 37:30	And this shalbe a signe vnto thee, O Hezekiah, Thou shalt eate this yeere such as groweth of it selfe: and the second yeere, such things as growe without sowing: and in the third yeere, sowe ye and reape, and plant vineyards, and eate the fruite thereof.
Isaiah 37:31	And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Iudah, shall againe take roote downward and beare fruite vpward.
Isaiah 37:32	For out of Ierusalem shall goe a remnant, and they that escape out of mount Zion: the zeale of the Lord of hostes shall doe this.
Isaiah 37:33	Therefore thus sayth the Lord, concerning the King of Asshur, He shall not enter into this citie, nor shoote an arrow there, nor come before it with shield, nor cast a mount against it.
Isaiah 37:34	By the same way that he came, he shall returne, and not come into this citie, saith the Lord.
Isaiah 37:35	For I will defend this citie to saue it, for mine owne sake, and for my seruant Dauids sake.
Isaiah 37:36	Then the Angel of the Lord went out, and smote in the campe of Asshur an hundreth, fourescore, and fiue thousand: so when they arose early in the morning, beholde, they were all dead corpses.
Isaiah 37:37	So Saneherib king of Asshur departed, and went away and returned and dwelt at Nineueh.
Isaiah 37:38	And as he was in the temple worshipping of Nisroch his god, Adramelech and Sharezer his sonnes slewe him with the sword, and they escaped into the land of Ararat: and Esarhaddon his sonne reigned in his steade.
Isaiah 38:1	About that time was Hezekiah sicke vnto the death, and the Prophet Isaiah sonne of Amoz came vnto him, and sayd vnto him, Thus sayth the Lord, Put thine house in an order, for thou shalt dye, and not liue.
Isaiah 38:2	Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall, and prayed to the Lord,
Isaiah 38:3	And saide, I beseeche thee, Lord, remember nowe howe I haue walked before thee in trueth, and with a perfite heart, and haue done that which is good in thy sight: and Hezekiah wept sore.
Isaiah 38:4	Then came the worde of the Lord to Isaiah, saying,
Isaiah 38:5	Goe, and say vnto Hezekiah, Thus saith the Lord God of Dauid thy father, I haue heard thy prayer, and seene thy teares: behold, I will adde vnto thy dayes fifteene yeeres.
Isaiah 38:6	And I will deliuer thee out of the hand of the King of Asshur, and this citie: for I will defende this citie.
Isaiah 38:7	And this signe shalt thou haue of ye Lord, that ye Lord will do this thing that he hath spoken,
Isaiah 38:8	Beholde, I will bring againe the shadowe of the degrees (whereby it is gone downe in the diall of Ahaz by the sunne) ten degrees backeward: so the sunne returned by tenne degrees, by the which degrees it was gone downe.
Isaiah 38:9	The writing of Hezekiah King of Iudah, when he had bene sicke, and was recouered of his sickenesse.
Isaiah 38:10	I saide in the cutting off of my dayes, I shall goe to the gates of the graue: I am depriued of the residue of my yeeres.
Isaiah 38:11	I said, I shall not see the Lord, euen the Lord in the land of the liuing: I shall see man no more among the inhabitants of the world.
Isaiah 38:12	Mine habitation is departed, and is remoued from me, like a shepheards tent: I haue cut off like a weauer my life: he will cut me off from the height: from day to night, thou wilt make an ende of me.
Isaiah 38:13	I rekoned to the morning: but he brake all my bones, like a lion: from day to night wilt thou make an ende of me.
Isaiah 38:14	Like a crane or a swallow, so did I chatter: I did mourne as a doue: mine eies were lift vp on high: O Lord, it hath oppressed me, comfort me.
Isaiah 38:15	What shall I say? for he hath said it to me, and he hath done it: I shall walke weakely all my yeeres in the bitternesse of my soule.
Isaiah 38:16	O Lord, to them that ouerliue them, and to all that are in them, the life of my spirite shalbe knowen, that thou causedst me to sleepe and hast giuen life to me.
Isaiah 38:17	Beholde, for felicitie I had bitter griefe, but it was thy pleasure to deliuer my soule from the pit of corruption: for thou hast cast all my sinnes behinde thy backe.
Isaiah 38:18	For the graue cannot confesse thee: death cannot praise thee: they that goe downe into the pit, cannot hope for thy trueth.
Isaiah 38:19	But the liuing, the liuing, he shall confesse thee, as I doe this day: the father to the children shall declare thy trueth.
Isaiah 38:20	The Lord was ready to saue me: therefore we will sing my song, all the dayes of our life in the House of the Lord.
Isaiah 38:21	Then said Isaiah, Take a lumpe of drye figs and lay it vpon the boyle, and he shall recouer.
Isaiah 38:22	Also Hezekiah had said, What is ye signe, that I shall goe vp into the House of the Lord?
Isaiah 39:1	At the same time, Merodach Baladan, the sonne of Baladan, King of Babel, sent letters, and a present to Hezekiah: for he had heard that he had bene sicke, and was recouered.
Isaiah 39:2	And Hezekiah was glad of them, and shewed them the house of the treasures, the siluer, and the golde, and the spices, and the precious ointment, and all the house of his armour, and all that was founde in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all his kingdome that Hezekiah shewed them not.
Isaiah 39:3	Then came Isaiah the Prophet vnto King Hezekiah, and said vnto him, What said these men? and from whence came they to thee? And Hezekiah saide, They are come from a farre countrey vnto me, from Babel.
Isaiah 39:4	Then saide he, What haue they seene in thine house? And Hezekiah answered, All that is in mine house haue they seene: there is nothing among my treasures, that I haue not shewed them.
Isaiah 39:5	And Isaiah saide to Hezekiah, Heare the worde of the Lord of hostes,
Isaiah 39:6	Beholde, the dayes come, that all that is in thine house, and which thy fathers haue layed vp in store vntill this day, shall be caried to Babel: nothing shall be left, sayeth the Lord.
Isaiah 39:7	And of thy sonnes, that shall proceede out of thee, and which thou shalt beget, shall they take away, and they shall be eunuches in the palace of the King of Babel.
Isaiah 39:8	Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, The worde of the Lord is good, which thou hast spoken: and he saide, Yet let there be peace, and trueth in my dayes.
Isaiah 40:1	Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, will your God say.
Isaiah 40:2	Speake comfortably to Ierusalem, and crye vnto her, that her warrefare is accomplished, that her iniquitie is pardoned: for she hath receiued of the Lords hand double for all her sinnes.
Isaiah 40:3	A voyce cryeth in the wildernesse, Prepare ye the way of the Lord: make streight in the desert a path for our God.
Isaiah 40:4	Euery valley shall be exalted, and euery mountaine and hill shall be made lowe: and the crooked shalbe streight, and the rough places plaine.
Isaiah 40:5	And the glory of the Lord shalbe reueiled, and all flesh shall see it together: for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it.
Isaiah 40:6	A voyce saide, Crie. And he saide, What shall I crie? All flesh is grasse, and all the grace thereof is as the floure of the fielde.
Isaiah 40:7	The grasse withereth, the floure fadeth, because the Spirite of the Lord bloweth vpon it: surely the people is grasse.
Isaiah 40:8	The grasse withereth, the floure fadeth: but the worde of our God shall stand for euer.
Isaiah 40:9	O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee vp into the hie mountaine: O Ierusalem, that bringest good tidings, lift vp thy voyce with strength: lift it vp, be not afraide: say vnto the cities of Iudah, Beholde your God.
Isaiah 40:10	Beholde, the Lord God will come with power, and his arme shall rule for him: beholde, his rewarde is with him, and his worke before him,
Isaiah 40:11	He shall feede his flocke like a shepheard: he shall gather the lambes with his arme, and cary them in his bosome, and shall guide them with young.
Isaiah 40:12	Who hath measured the waters in his fist? and counted heauen with the spanne, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure? and weighed ye mountaines in a weight, and the hilles in a balance?
Isaiah 40:13	Who hath instructed ye Spirit of the Lord? or was his counseler or taught him?
Isaiah 40:14	Of whom tooke he counsell, and who instructed him and taught him in the way of iudgement? or taught him knowledge, and shewed vnto him the way of vnderstanding?
Isaiah 40:15	Beholde, the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the dust of the balance: beholde, he taketh away the yles as a litle dust.
Isaiah 40:16	And Lebanon is not sufficient for fire, nor the beastes thereof sufficient for a burnt offering.
Isaiah 40:17	All nations before him are as nothing, and they are counted to him, lesse then nothing, and vanitie.
Isaiah 40:18	To whom then wil ye liken God? or what similitude will ye set vp vnto him?
Isaiah 40:19	The workeman melteth an image, or the goldsmith beateth it out in golde, or the goldesmith maketh siluer plates.
Isaiah 40:20	Doeth not the poore chuse out a tree that will not rot, for an oblation? he seeketh also vnto him a cunning workeman, to prepare an image, that shall not be moued.
Isaiah 40:21	Know ye nothing? haue ye not heard it? hath it not bene tolde you from the beginning? haue ye not vnderstand it by the foundation of the earth?
Isaiah 40:22	He sitteth vpon the circle of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof are as grashoppers, hee stretcheth out ye heauens, as a curtaine, and spreadeth them out, as a tent to dwell in.
Isaiah 40:23	He bringeth the princes to nothing, and maketh the iudges of the earth, as vanitie,
Isaiah 40:24	As though they were not plated, as though they were not sowen, as though their stocke tooke no roote in the earth: for he did euen blow vpon them, and they withered, and the whirlewinde will take them away as stubble.
Isaiah 40:25	To whom nowe will ye liken me, that I should be like him, saith the Holy one?
Isaiah 40:26	Lift vp your eyes on hie, and beholde who hath created these things, and bringeth out their armies by nomber, and calleth them all by names? by the greatnesse of his power and mightie strength nothing faileth.
Isaiah 40:27	Why sayest thou, O Iaakob, and speakest O Israel, My way is hid from the Lord, and my iudgement is passed ouer of my God?
Isaiah 40:28	Knowest thou not? or hast thou not heard, that the euerlasting God, the Lord hath created the endes of the earth? he neither fainteth, nor is wearie: there is no searching of his vnderstanding.
Isaiah 40:29	But he giueth strength vnto him that fainteth, and vnto him that hath no strength, he encreaseth power.
Isaiah 40:30	Euen the yong men shall faint, and be wearie, and the yong men shall stumble and fall.
Isaiah 40:31	But they that waite vpon the Lord, shall renue their strength: they shall lift vp the wings as the eagles: they shall runne, and not be wearie, and they shall walke and not faint.
Isaiah 41:1	Keep silence before mee, O ylands, and let the people renue their strength: let the come neere, and let them speake: let vs come together into iudgement.
Isaiah 41:2	Who raised vp iustice from the East, and called him to his foote? and gaue the nations before him, and subdued the Kings? he gaue them as dust to his sword, and as scattered stubble vnto his bowe.
Isaiah 41:3	He pursued them, and passed safely by the way that he had not gone with his feete.
Isaiah 41:4	Who hath wrought and done it? he that calleth the generations from the beginning. I the Lord am the first, and with the last I am ye same.
Isaiah 41:5	The yles sawe it, and did feare, and the ends of the earth were abashed, drew neere, and came.
Isaiah 41:6	Euery man helped his neighbour, and saide to his brother, Be strong.
Isaiah 41:7	So the workeman comforted the founder, and he that smote with ye hammer, him that smote by course, saying, It is ready for the sodering, and he fastened it with nayles that it shoulde not be mooued.
Isaiah 41:8	But thou, Israel, art my seruant, and thou Iaakob, whom I haue chosen, the seede of Abraham my friend.
Isaiah 41:9	For I haue taken thee from the endes of the earth, and called thee before the chiefe thereof, and saide vnto thee, Thou art my seruant: I haue chosen thee, and not cast thee away.
Isaiah 41:10	Feare thou not, for I am with thee: be not afraide, for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee, and helpe thee, and will susteine thee with the right hand of my iustice.
Isaiah 41:11	Beholde, all they that prouoke thee, shalbe ashamed, and confounded: they shalbe as nothing, and they that striue with thee, shall perish.
Isaiah 41:12	Thou shalt seeke them and shalt not finde them: to wit, the men of thy strife, for they shall be as nothing, and the men that warre against thee, as a thing of nought.
Isaiah 41:13	For I the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying vnto thee, Feare not, I wil helpe thee.
Isaiah 41:14	Feare not, thou worme, Iaakob, and ye men of Israel: I wil helpe thee, sayth the Lord and thy redeemer the holy one of Israel.
Isaiah 41:15	Behold, I wil make thee a roller, and a newe threshing instrument hauing teeth: thou shalt thresh the mountaines, and bring them to pouder, and shalt make the hilles as chaffe.
Isaiah 41:16	Thou shalt fanne them, and the winde shall carie them away, and the whirlewinde shall scatter them: and thou shalt reioyce in the Lord, and shalt glory in the holy one of Israel.
Isaiah 41:17	When the poore and the needy seeke water, and there is none (their tongue faileth for thirst: I the Lord will heare them: I the God of Israel will not forsake them)
Isaiah 41:18	I will open riuers in the toppes of the hils, and fountaines in the middes of the valleis: I will make the wildernesse as a poole of water, and the waste land as springs of water.
Isaiah 41:19	I will set in the wildernesse the cedar, the shittah tree, and the mirre tree, and the pine tree, and I will set in the wildernesse the firre tree, the elme and the boxe tree together.
Isaiah 41:20	Therefore let them see and knowe, and let them consider and vnderstande together that the hand of the Lord hath done this, and the holy one of Israel hath created it.
Isaiah 41:21	Stand to your cause, saith the Lord: bring forth your strong reasons, saith ye King of Iaakob.
Isaiah 41:22	Let them bring foorth, and let them tell vs what shall come: let them shew the former things what they be, that wee may consider them, and knowe the latter ende of them: either declare vs things for to come.
Isaiah 41:23	Shewe the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that you are gods: yea, doe good or doe euill, that we may declare it, and beholde it together.
Isaiah 41:24	Beholde, ye are of no value, and your making is of naught: man hath chosen an abomination by them.
Isaiah 41:25	I haue raised vp from the North, and he shall come: from the East sunne shall he cal vpon my Name, and shall come vpon princes as vpon clay, and as the potter treadeth myre vnder the foote.
Isaiah 41:26	Who hath declared from the beginning, that we may knowe? or before time, that we may say, He is righteous? Surely there is none that sheweth: surely there is none that declareth: surely there is none that heareth your wordes.
Isaiah 41:27	I am the first, that saieth to Zion, Beholde, beholde them: and I will giue to Ierusalem one that shall bring good tidings.
Isaiah 41:28	But when I behelde, there was none, and when I inquired of them, there was no counsellor, and when I demaunded of them, they answered not a woorde.
Isaiah 41:29	Beholde, they are all vanitie: their worke is of nothing, their images are wind and confusion.
Isaiah 42:1	Behold, my seruaunt: I will stay vpon him: mine elect, in whom my soule deliteth: I haue put my Spirit vpon him: he shall bring forth iudgement to the Gentiles.
Isaiah 42:2	He shall not crie, nor lift vp, nor cause his voice to be heard in the streete.
Isaiah 42:3	A bruised reede shall hee not breake, and the smoking flaxe shall he not quench: he shall bring foorth iudgement in trueth.
Isaiah 42:4	He shall not faile nor be discouraged till he haue set iudgement in the earth: and the yles shall waite for his lawe.
Isaiah 42:5	Thus sayeth God the Lord (he that created the heauens and spred them abroad: he that stretched foorth the earth, and the buddes thereof: he that giueth breath vnto the people vpon it, and spirit to them that walke therein)
Isaiah 42:6	I the Lord haue called thee in righteousnesse, and will hold thine hand, and I will keepe thee, and giue thee for a couenant of the people, and for a light of the Gentiles,
Isaiah 42:7	That thou maist open the eyes of the blind, and bring out the prisoners from the prison: and them that sitte in darkenesse, out of the prison house.
Isaiah 42:8	I am the Lord, this is my Name, and my glory wil I not giue to another, neither my praise to grauen images.
Isaiah 42:9	Beholde, the former thinges are come to passe, and newe things doe I declare: before they come foorth, I tell you of them.
Isaiah 42:10	Sing vnto the Lord a newe song, and his praise from the ende of the earth: yee that goe downe to the sea, and all that is therein: the yles and the inhabitants thereof.
Isaiah 42:11	Let the wildernesse and the cities thereof lift vp their voyce, the townes that Kedar doeth inhabite: let the inhabitants of the rocks sing: let them shoute from the toppe of the mountaines.
Isaiah 42:12	Let them giue glorie vnto the Lord, and declare his praise in the ylands.
Isaiah 42:13	The Lord shall go forth as a gyant: he shall stirre vp his courage like a man of warre: he shall shout and crie, and shall preuaile against his enemies.
Isaiah 42:14	I haue a long time holden my peace: I haue beene still and refrained my selfe: nowe will I crie like a trauailing woman: I will destroy and deuoure at once.
Isaiah 42:15	I will make waste mountaines, and hilles, and drie vp all their herbes, and I will make the floods ylands, and I will drie vp the pooles.
Isaiah 42:16	And I will bring the blinde by a way, that they knewe not, and lead them by paths that they haue not knowen: I will make darkenesse light before them, and crooked thinges straight. These thinges will I doe vnto them, and not forsake them.
Isaiah 42:17	They shall be turned backe: they shall be greatly ashamed, that trust in grauen images, and say to the molten images, Yee are our gods.
Isaiah 42:18	Heare, ye deafe: and ye blinde, regarde, that ye may see.
Isaiah 42:19	Who is blinde but my seruaunt? or deafe as my messenger, that I sent? who is blind as the perfit, and blinde as the Lordes seruant?
Isaiah 42:20	Seeing many things, but thou keepest them not? opening the eares, but he heareth not?
Isaiah 42:21	The Lord is willing for his righteousnesse sake that he may magnifie the Lawe, and exalt it.
Isaiah 42:22	But this people is robbed and spoiled, and shalbe all snared in dungeons, and they shalbe hid in prison houses: they shall be for a pray, and none shall deliuer: a spoile, and none shall say, Restore.
Isaiah 42:23	Who among you shall hearken to this, and take heede, and heare for afterwardes?
Isaiah 42:24	Who gaue Iaakob for a spoyle, and Israel to the robbers? Did not ye Lord, because we haue sinned against him? for they woulde not walke in his waies, neither be obedient vnto his Lawe.
Isaiah 42:25	Therefore hee hath powred vpon him his fierce wrath, and the strength of battell: and it set him on fire round about, and he knewe not, and it burned him vp, yet he considered not.
Isaiah 43:1	But nowe thus sayeth the Lord, that created thee, O Iaakob: and hee that formed thee, O Israel, Feare not: for I haue redeemed thee: I haue called thee by thy name, thou art mine.
Isaiah 43:2	When thou passest through the waters, I wil be with thee, and through the floods, that they doe not ouerflowe thee. When thou walkest through the very fire, thou shalt not be burnt, neither shall the flame kindle vpon thee.
Isaiah 43:3	For I am the Lord thy God, the holy one of Israel, thy Sauiour: I gaue Egypt for thy ransome, Ethiopia, and Seba for thee.
Isaiah 43:4	Because thou wast precious in my sight, and thou wast honourable, and I loued thee, therefore will I giue man for thee, and people for thy sake.
Isaiah 43:5	Feare not, for I am with thee: I will bring thy seede from the East, and gather thee from the West.
Isaiah 43:6	I will say to the North, Giue: and to the South, Keepe not backe: bring my sonnes from farre, and my daughters from the ends of the earth.
Isaiah 43:7	Euery one shall be called by my Name: for I created him for my glorie, formed him and made him.
Isaiah 43:8	I will bring foorth the blinde people, and they shall haue eyes, and the deafe, and they shall haue eares.
Isaiah 43:9	Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the people be assembled: who among them can declare this and shewe vs former things? let them bring foorth their witnesses, that they may be iustified: but let them heare, and say, It is truth.
Isaiah 43:10	You are my witnesses, saith the Lord, and my seruant, whom I haue chosen: therefore yee shall knowe and beleeue me and yee shall vnderstand that I am: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me.
Isaiah 43:11	I, euen I am the Lord, and beside me there is no Sauiour.
Isaiah 43:12	I haue declared, and I haue saued, and I haue shewed, when there was no strange god among you: therefore you are my witnesses, sayeth the Lord, that I am God.
Isaiah 43:13	Yea, before the day was, I am, and there is none that can deliuer out of mine hand: I will doe it, and who shall let it?
Isaiah 43:14	Thus sayeth the Lord your redeemer, the holy one of Israel, For your sake I haue sent to Babel, and brought it downe: they are all fugitiues, and the Chaldeans crie in the shippes.
Isaiah 43:15	I am the Lord your holy one, the creator of Israel, your King.
Isaiah 43:16	Thus sayeth the Lord which maketh a way in the Sea, and a path in the mighty waters.
Isaiah 43:17	When hee bringeth out the charet and horse, the armie and the power lie together, and shall not rise: they are extinct, and quenched as towe.
Isaiah 43:18	Remember yee not the former things, neither regard the things of olde.
Isaiah 43:19	Behold, I do a new thing: now shall it come foorth: shall you not knowe it? I wil euen make a way in the desert, and floods in the wildernesse.
Isaiah 43:20	The wilde beastes shall honour mee, the dragons and the ostriches, because I gaue water in the desert, and floods in the wildernesse to giue drinke to my people, euen to mine elect.
Isaiah 43:21	This people haue I formed for my selfe: they shall shewe foorth my praise.
Isaiah 43:22	And thou hast not called vpon mee, O Iaakob, but thou hast wearied me, O Israel.
Isaiah 43:23	Thou hast not brought me the sheepe of thy burnt offrings, neither hast thou honoured me with thy sacrifices. I haue not caused thee to serue with an offring, nor wearied thee with incense.
Isaiah 43:24	Thou boughtest mee no sweete sauour with money, neither hast thou made mee drunke with the fatte of thy sacrifices, but thou hast made mee to serue with thy sinnes, and wearied mee with thine iniquities.
Isaiah 43:25	I, euen I am he that putteth away thine iniquities for mine owne sake, and will not remember thy sinnes.
Isaiah 43:26	Put me in remembrance: let vs be iudged together: count thou that thou maist be iustified.
Isaiah 43:27	Thy first father hath sinned, and thy teachers haue transgressed against me.
Isaiah 43:28	Therefore I haue prophaned the rulers of the Sanctuarie, and haue made Iaakob a curse, and Israel a reproche.
Isaiah 44:1	Yet nowe heare, O Iaakob my seruant, and Israel, whom I haue chosen.
Isaiah 44:2	Thus sayeth the Lord, that made thee, and formed thee from the wombe: he wil helpe thee. Feare not, O Iaakob, my seruaunt, and thou righteous, whome I haue chosen.
Isaiah 44:3	For I will powre water vpon the thirstie, and floods vpon the drie grounde: I will powre my Spirit vpon thy seede, and my blessing vpon thy buddes.
Isaiah 44:4	And they shall grow as among the grasse, and as the willowes by the riuers of waters.
Isaiah 44:5	One shall say, I am the Lordes: another shalbe called by the name of Iaakob: and another shall subscribe with his hand vnto the Lord, and name himselfe by the name of Israel.
Isaiah 44:6	Thus saith the Lord the King of Israel and his redeemer, the Lord of hostes, I am the first, and I am the last, and without me is there no God.
Isaiah 44:7	And who is like me, that shall call, and shall declare it, and set it in order before me, since I appointed the ancient people? and what is at hand, and what things are to come? let them shewe vnto them.
Isaiah 44:8	Feare ye not, neither be afraide: haue not I tolde thee of olde, and haue declared it? you are euen my witnesses, whether there be a God beside me, and that there is no God that I knowe not.
Isaiah 44:9	All they that make an image, are vanitie, and their delectable things shall nothing profite: and they are their owne witnesses, that they see not nor know: therefore they shalbe confounded.
Isaiah 44:10	Who hath made a god, or molten an image, that is profitable for nothing?
Isaiah 44:11	Beholde, all that are of the fellowship thereof, shall be confounded: for the workemen themselues are men: let them all be gathered together, and stand vp, yet they shall feare, and be confounded together.
Isaiah 44:12	The smith taketh an instrument, and worketh in the coles, and facioneth it with hammers, and worketh it with the strength of his armes: yea, he is an hungred, and his strength faileth: he drinketh no water, and is faint.
Isaiah 44:13	The carpenter stretcheth out a line: he facioneth it with a red thread, he planeth it, and he purtreyeth it with the compasse, and maketh it after the figure of a man, and according to the beautie of a man that it may remaine in an house.
Isaiah 44:14	He will hewe him downe cedars, and take the pine tree and the oke, and taketh courage among the trees of the forest: he planteth a firre tree, and the raine doeth nourish it.
Isaiah 44:15	And man burneth thereof: for he will take thereof and warme himselfe: he also kindleth it and baketh bread, yet he maketh a god, and worshippeth it: he maketh it an idole and boweth vnto it.
Isaiah 44:16	He burneth the halfe thereof euen in the fire, and vpon the halfe thereof he eateth flesh: he rosteth the roste and is satisfied: also he warmeth himselfe and sayth, Aha, I am warme, I haue bene at the fire.
Isaiah 44:17	And the residue thereof he maketh a god, euen his idole: he boweth vnto it, and worshippeth and prayeth vnto it, and sayeth, Deliuer me: for thou art my god.
Isaiah 44:18	They haue not knowen, nor vnderstand: for God hath shut their eyes that they cannot see, and their heartes, that they cannot vnderstand.
Isaiah 44:19	And none considereth in his heart, neither is there knowledge nor vnderstanding to say, I haue burnt halfe of it, euen in the fire, and haue baked bread also vpon the coles thereof: I haue rosted flesh, and eaten it, and shall I make the residue thereof an abomination? shall I bowe to the stocke of a tree?
Isaiah 44:20	He feedeth of ashes: a seduced heart hath deceiued him, that he cannot deliuer his soule, nor say, Is there not a lye in my right hand?
Isaiah 44:21	Remember these (O Iaakob and Israel) for thou art my seruant: I haue formed thee: thou art my seruant: O Israel forget me not.
Isaiah 44:22	I haue put away thy transgressions like a cloude, and thy sinnes, as a mist: turne vnto me, for I haue redeemed thee.
Isaiah 44:23	Reioyce, ye heauens: for the Lord hath done it: shoute, ye lower partes of the earth: brast foorth into prayses, ye mountaines, O forest and euery tree therein: for the Lord hath redeemed Iaakob and will be glorified in Israel.
Isaiah 44:24	Thus sayeth the Lord thy redeemer and he that formed thee from the wombe, I am the Lord, that made all things, that spred out the heauens alone, and stretched out the earth by my selfe.
Isaiah 44:25	I destroy the tokens of ye southsayers, and make them that coniecture, fooles, and turne the wise men backwarde, and make their knowledge foolishnesse.
Isaiah 44:26	He confirmeth the worde of his seruant and performeth the counsell of his messengers, saying to Ierusalem, Thou shalt bee inhabited: and to the cities of Iudah, Yee shall be built vp, and I will repayre the decayed places thereof.
Isaiah 44:27	He saith to the deepe, Be drye and I will drye vp thy floods.
Isaiah 44:28	He saith to Cyrus, Thou art my shepheard: and he shall performe all my desire: saying also to Ierusalem, Thou shalt be built: and to the Temple, Thy foundation shall be surely layed.
Isaiah 45:1	Thus sayeth the Lord vnto Cyrus his anointed, whose right hand I haue holden to subdue nations before him: therefore will I weaken the loynes of Kings and open the doores before him, and the gates shall not be shut:
Isaiah 45:2	I will goe before thee and make the crooked streight: I will breake the brasen doores, and burst the yron barres.
Isaiah 45:3	And I will giue thee the treasures of darkenesse, and the things hid in secret places, that thou maist know that I am the Lord which call thee by thy name, euen the God of Israel.
Isaiah 45:4	For Iaakob my seruants sake, and Israel mine elect, I will euen call thee by thy name and name thee, though thou hast not knowen me.
Isaiah 45:5	I am the Lord and there is none other: there is no God besides me: I girded thee though thou hast not knowen me,
Isaiah 45:6	That they may knowe from the rising of the sunne and from the West, that there is none besides me. I am the Lord, and there is none other.
Isaiah 45:7	I forme the light and create darkenes: I make peace and create euill: I the Lord doe all these things.
Isaiah 45:8	Ye heauens, send the dewe from aboue, and let the cloudes droppe downe righteousnesse: let the earth open, and let saluation and iustice growe foorth: let it bring them foorth together: I the Lord haue created him.
Isaiah 45:9	Woe be vnto him that striueth with his maker, the potsherd with the potsherds of the earth: shall the clay say to him that facioneth it, What makest thou? or thy worke, It hath none hands?
Isaiah 45:10	Woe vnto him that sayeth to his father, What hast thou begotten? or to his mother, What hast thou brought foorth?
Isaiah 45:11	Thus saith the Lord, the holy one of Israel, and his maker, Aske me of things to come concerning my sonnes, and concerning the workes of mine hands: commande you me.
Isaiah 45:12	I haue made the earth, and created man vpon it: I, whose hands haue spred out the heauens, I haue euen commanded all their armie.
Isaiah 45:13	I haue raised him vp in righteousnesse, and I will direct all his wayes: he shall build my citie, and he shall let goe my captiues, not for price nor rewarde, saith the Lord of hostes.
Isaiah 45:14	Thus sayth the Lord, The labour of Egypt, and the marchandise of Ethiopia, and of the Sabeans, men of stature shall come vnto thee, and they shall be thine: they shall follow thee, and shall goe in chaines: they shall fall downe before thee, and make supplication vnto thee, saying, Surely God is in thee, and there is none other God besides.
Isaiah 45:15	Verely thou, O God, hidest thy selfe, O God, the Sauiour of Israel.
Isaiah 45:16	All they shalbe ashamed and also confounded: they shall goe to confusion together, that are the makers of images.
Isaiah 45:17	But Israel shall be saued in the Lord, with an euerlasting saluation: ye shall not be ashamed nor confounded worlde without ende.
Isaiah 45:18	For thus saith the Lord (that created heauen, God himselfe, that formed the earth, and made it: he that prepared it, he created it not in vaine: he formed it to be inhabited) I am the Lord, and there is none other.
Isaiah 45:19	I haue not spoken in secrete, neither in a place of darkenes in the earth: I saide not in vaine vnto the seede of Iaakob, Seeke you me: I the Lord doe speake righteousnesse, and declare righteous things.
Isaiah 45:20	Assemble your selues, and come: drawe neere together, ye abiect of the Gentiles: they haue no knowledge, that set vp the wood of their idole, and pray vnto a god, that cannot saue them.
Isaiah 45:21	Tell ye and bring them, and let them take counsell together, who hath declared this from the beginning? or hath tolde it of olde? Haue not I the Lord? and there is none other God beside me, a iust God, and a Sauiour: there is none beside me.
Isaiah 45:22	Looke vnto me, and ye shall be saued: all the endes of the earth shall be saued: for I am God, and there is none other.
Isaiah 45:23	I haue sworne by my selfe: the worde is gone out of my mouth in righteousnesse, and shall not returne, That euery knee shall bowe vnto me, and euery tongue shall sweare by me.
Isaiah 45:24	Surely he shall say, In the Lord haue I righteousnesse and strength: he shall come vnto him, and all that prouoke him, shall be ashamed.
Isaiah 45:25	The whole seede of Israel shall be iustified, and glorie in the Lord.
Isaiah 46:1	Bel is bowed downe: Nebo is fallen: their idoles were vpon the beastes, and vpon the cattell: they which did beare you, were laden with a wearie burden.
Isaiah 46:2	They are bowed downe, and fallen together: for they coulde not rid them of the burden, and their soule is gone into captiuitie.
Isaiah 46:3	Heare ye me, O house of Iaakob, and all that remaine of the house of Israel, which are borne of me from the wombe, and brought vp of me from the birth.
Isaiah 46:4	Therefore vnto olde age, I the same, euen I will beare you vntill the hoare heares: I haue made you: I will also beare you, and I will cary you and I will deliuer you.
Isaiah 46:5	To whom will ye make me like or make me equall, or copare me, that I should be like him?
Isaiah 46:6	They draw gold out of the bagge and weigh siluer in the balance, and hire a goldsmith to make a god of it, and they bowe downe, and worship it.
Isaiah 46:7	They beare it vpon the shoulders: they carie him and set him in his place: so doeth he stand, and cannot remoue from his place. Though one crie vnto him, yet can he not answere, nor deliuer him out of his tribulation.
Isaiah 46:8	Remember this, and be ashamed: bring it againe to minde, O you transgressers.
Isaiah 46:9	Remember the former things of old: for I am God, and there is none other God, and there is nothing like me,
Isaiah 46:10	Which declare the last thing from the beginning: and from of olde, the things that were not done, saying, My counsell shall stand, and I will doe whatsoeuer I will.
Isaiah 46:11	I call a birde from the East, and the man of my counsell from farre: as I haue spoken, so will I bring it to passe: I haue purposed it, and I will doe it.
Isaiah 46:12	Heare me, ye stubburne hearted, that are farre from iustice.
Isaiah 46:13	I bring neere my iustice: it shall not be farre off, and my saluation shall not tarie: for I wil giue saluation in Zion, and my glory vnto Israel.
Isaiah 47:1	Come downe and sit in the dust: O virgine, daughter Babel, sit on the ground: there is no throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called, Tender and delicate.
Isaiah 47:2	Take the mill stones, and grinde meale: loose thy lockes: make bare the feete: vncouer the legge, and passe through the floods.
Isaiah 47:3	Thy filthinesse shall be discouered, and thy shame shall be seene: I will take vengeance, and I will not meete thee as a man.
Isaiah 47:4	Our redeemer, the Lord of hostes is his Name, the holy one of Israel.
Isaiah 47:5	Sit still, and get thee into darkenesse, O daughter of the Chaldeas: for thou shalt no more be called, The ladie of kingdomes.
Isaiah 47:6	I was wroth with my people: I haue polluted mine inheritance, and giuen them into thine had: thou diddest shew them no mercy, but thou didest lay thy very heauy yoke vpon the ancient.
Isaiah 47:7	And thou saidest, I shall be a ladie for euer, so that thou diddest not set thy mind to these things, neither diddest thou remember ye latter end therof.
Isaiah 47:8	Therefore nowe heare, thou that art giuen to pleasures, and dwellest carelesse, Shee sayeth in her heart, I am and none els: I shall not sit as a widowe, neither shall knowe the losse of children.
Isaiah 47:9	But these two thinges shall come to thee suddenly on one day, the losse of children and widowhoode: they shall come vpon thee in their perfection, for the multitude of thy diuinations, and for the great abundance of thine inchanters.
Isaiah 47:10	For thou hast trusted in thy wickednesse: thou hast sayd, None seeth me. Thy wisdom and thy knowledge, they haue caused thee to rebel, and thou hast saide in thine heart, I am, and none els.
Isaiah 47:11	Therefore shall euill come vpon thee, and thou shalt not knowe the morning thereof: destruction shall fal vpon thee, which thou shalt not be able to put away: destruction shall come vpon thee suddenly, or thou beware.
Isaiah 47:12	Stand now among thine inchanters, and in the multitude of thy southsaiers (with whome thou hast wearied thy selfe from thy youth) if so be thou maist haue profit, or if so be thou maist haue strength.
Isaiah 47:13	Thou art wearied in the multitude of thy counsels: let now the astrologers, the starre gasers, and prognosticatours stand vp, and saue thee from these things, that shall come vpon thee.
Isaiah 47:14	Beholde, they shall be as stubble: the fire shall burne them: they shall not deliuer their owne liues from the power of the flame: there shalbe no coles to warme at, nor light to sit by.
Isaiah 47:15	Thus shall they serue thee, with whom thou hast wearied thee, euen thy marchants from thy youth: euery one shall wander to his owne quarter: none shall saue thee.
Isaiah 48:1	Hear yee this, O house of Iaakob, which are called by the name of Israel, and are come out of the waters of Iudah: which sweare by the Name of the Lord, and make mention of the God of Israel, but not in truth, nor in righteousnesse.
Isaiah 48:2	For they are called of the holy citie, and staie themselues vpon the God of Israel, whose Name is the Lord of hostes.
Isaiah 48:3	I haue declared ye former things of old, and they went out of my mouth, and I shewed them: I did them suddenly, and they came to passe.
Isaiah 48:4	Because I knewe, that thou art obstinate, and thy necke is an yron sinew, and thy brow brasse,
Isaiah 48:5	Therefore I haue declared it to thee of old: before it came to passe, I shewed it thee, lest thou shouldest say, Mine idole hath done them, and my carued image, and my molten image hath commanded them.
Isaiah 48:6	Thou hast heard, behold all this, and wil not yee declare it? I haue shewed thee newe things, euen now, and hid things, which thou knewest not.
Isaiah 48:7	They are created now, and not of olde, and euen before this thou heardest them not, lest thou shouldest say, Beholde, I knewe them.
Isaiah 48:8	Yet thou heardest them not, neither diddest know them, neither yet was thine eare opened of olde: for I knewe that thou wouldest grieuously transgresse: therefore haue I called thee a transgressour from the wombe.
Isaiah 48:9	For my Names sake will I defer my wrath, and for my praise will I refraine it from thee, that I cut thee not off.
Isaiah 48:10	Behold, I haue fined thee, but not as siluer: I haue chosen thee in the fornace of affliction.
Isaiah 48:11	For mine owne sake, for mine owne sake wil I doe it: for how should my Name be polluted? surely I wil not giue my glory vnto another.
Isaiah 48:12	Heare me, O Iaakob and Israel, my called, I am, I am the first, and I am the last.
Isaiah 48:13	Surely mine hand hath laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand hath spanned the heaues: when I cal them, they stand vp together.
Isaiah 48:14	All you, assemble your selues, and heare: which among them hath declared these thinges? The Lord hath loued him: he wil doe his will in Babel, and his arme shalbe against the Chaldeans.
Isaiah 48:15	I, euen I haue spoken it, and I haue called him: I haue brought him, and his way shall prosper.
Isaiah 48:16	Come neere vnto me: heare ye this: I haue not spoken it in secret from the beginning: from the time that the thing was, I was there, and now the Lord God and his Spirit hath sent me.
Isaiah 48:17	Thus saith the Lord thy redeemer, the Holy one of Israel, I am the Lord thy God, which teach thee to profite, and lead thee by the way, that thou shouldest goe.
Isaiah 48:18	Oh that thou haddest hearkened to my commandements! then had thy prosperitie bene as the floude, and thy righteousnesse as the waues of the sea.
Isaiah 48:19	Thy seede also had beene as the sande, and the fruite of thy body like the grauell thereof: his name should not haue bene cut off nor destroied before me.
Isaiah 48:20	Goe yee out of Babel: flee yee from the Chaldeans, with a voice of ioy: tel and declare this: shewe it foorth to the ende of the earth: say yee, The Lord hath redeemed his seruant Iaakob.
Isaiah 48:21	And they were not thirstie: hee led them through the wildernesse: hee caused the waters to flowe out of the rocke for them: for he claue the rocke, and the water gushed out.
Isaiah 48:22	There is no peace, sayeth the Lord, vnto the wicked.
Isaiah 49:1	Hear yee me, O yles, and hearken, yee people from farre. The Lord hath called me from the wombe, and made mention of my name from my mothers bellie.
Isaiah 49:2	And hee hath made my mouth like a sharpe sworde: vnder the shadowe of his hande hath he hid mee, and made me a chosen shafte, and hid me in his quiuer,
Isaiah 49:3	And sayd vnto me, Thou art my seruaunt, Israel, for I will be glorious in thee.
Isaiah 49:4	And I said, I haue labored in vaine: I haue spent my strength in vaine and for nothing: but my iudgement is with the Lord, and my woorke with my God.
Isaiah 49:5	And now sayeth the Lord, that formed me from the wombe to be his seruaunt, that I may bring Iaakob againe to him (though Israel be not gathered, yet shall I bee glorious in the eyes of the Lord: and my God shall be my strength)
Isaiah 49:6	And hee sayde, It is a small thing that thou shouldest be my seruaunt, to raise vp the tribes of Iaakob, and to restore the desolations of Israel: I will also giue thee for a light of the Gentiles, that thou maiest bee my saluation vnto the ende of the worlde.
Isaiah 49:7	Thus sayeth the Lord the redeemer of Israel, and his Holie one, to him that is despised in soule, to a nation that is abhorred, to a seruaunt of rulers, Kinges shall see, and arise, and princes shall worship, because of the Lord, that is faithfull: and ye Holy one of Israel, which hath chosen thee.
Isaiah 49:8	Thus sayeth the Lord, In an acceptable time haue I heard thee, and in a day of saluation haue I helped thee: and I will preserue thee, and wil giue thee for a couenant of ye people, that thou maiest raise vp the earth, and obtaine the inheritance of the desolate heritages:
Isaiah 49:9	That thou maiest say to the prisoners, Goe foorth: and to them that are in darkenesse, Shewe your selues: they shall feede in the waies, and their pastures shall bee in all the toppes of the hilles.
Isaiah 49:10	They shall not be hungrie, neither shall they be thirstie, neither shall the heat smite them, nor the sunne: for he that hath compassion on them, shall leade them: euen to the springs of waters shall he driue them.
Isaiah 49:11	And I will make all my mountaines, as a way, and my paths shalbe exalted.
Isaiah 49:12	Beholde, these shall come from farre: and loe, these from the North and from the West, and these from the land of Sinim.
Isaiah 49:13	Reioyce, O heauens: and bee ioyfull, O earth: brast foorth into praise, O mountaines: for God hath comforted his people, and will haue mercie vpon his afflicted.
Isaiah 49:14	But Zion saide, The Lord hath forsaken me, and my Lord hath forgotten me.
Isaiah 49:15	Can a woman forget her childe, and not haue compassion on the sonne of her wombe? though they should forget, yet wil I not forget thee.
Isaiah 49:16	Behold, I haue grauen thee vpon the palme of mine hands: thy walles are euer in my sight.
Isaiah 49:17	Thy builders make haste: thy destroiers and they that made thee waste, are departed from thee.
Isaiah 49:18	Lift vp thine eies round about and behold: all these gather themselues together and come to thee: as I liue, sayeth the Lord, thou shalt surely put them all vpon thee as a garment, and girde thy selfe with them like a bride.
Isaiah 49:19	For thy desolations, and thy waste places, and thy land destroied, shall surely be now narow for them that shall dwell in it, and they that did deuoure thee, shalbe farre away.
Isaiah 49:20	The children of thy barennesse shall say againe in thine eares, The place is straict for mee: giue place to me that I may dwell.
Isaiah 49:21	Then shalt thou say in thine heart, Who hath begotten mee these, seeing I am baren and desolate, a captiue and a wanderer to and from? and who hath nourished them? beholde, I was left alone: whence are these?
Isaiah 49:22	Thus sayeth the Lord God, Beholde, I will lift vp mine hande to the Gentiles and set vp my stadart to the people, and they shall bring thy sonnes in their armes: and thy daughters shall be caried vpon their shoulders.
Isaiah 49:23	And Kings shalbe thy nourcing fathers, and Queenes shalbe thy nources: they shall worship thee with their faces towarde the earth, and licke vp the dust of thy feete: and thou shalt knowe that I am the Lord: for they shall not be ashamed that waite for me.
Isaiah 49:24	Shall the pray be taken from the mightie? or the iust captiuitie deliuered?
Isaiah 49:25	But thus sayeth the Lord, euen the captiuitie of the mightie shall be taken away: and the pray of the tyrant shall be deliuered: for I wil contend with him that contendeth with thee, and I will saue thy children,
Isaiah 49:26	And will feede them that spoile thee, with their owne flesh, and they shall be drunken with their owne bloode, as with sweete wine: and all flesh shall know that I the Lord am thy sauiour and thy redeemer, the mighty one of Iaakob.
Isaiah 50:1	Thus sayeth the Lord, Where is that bill of your mothers diuorcement, whome I haue cast off? or who is the creditour to whome I solde you? Beholde, for your iniquities are yee solde, and because of your transgressions is your mother forsaken.
Isaiah 50:2	Wherefore came I, and there was no man? I called, and none answered: is mine hand so shortened, that it cannot helpe? or haue I no power to deliuer? Beholde, at my rebuke I drie vp the Sea: I make the floods desert: their fish rotteth for want of water, and dieth for thirst.
Isaiah 50:3	I clothe the heauens with darkenesse, and make a sacke their couering.
Isaiah 50:4	The Lord God hath giuen me a tongue of the learned, that I shoulde knowe to minister a woord in time to him that is weary: he will raise me vp in the morning: in the morning hee will waken mine eare to heare, as the learned.
Isaiah 50:5	The Lord God hath opened mine eare and I was not rebellious, neither turned I backe.
Isaiah 50:6	I gaue my backe vnto the smiters, and my cheekes to the nippers: I hidde not my face from shame and spitting.
Isaiah 50:7	For the Lord God will helpe me, therefore shall I not bee confounded: therefore haue I set my face like a flint, and I knowe that I shall not be ashamed.
Isaiah 50:8	Hee is neere that iustifieth mee: who will contend with me? Let vs stande together: who is mine aduersarie? let him come neere to me.
Isaiah 50:9	Beholde, the Lord God will helpe me: who is he that can condemne me? loe, they shall waxe olde as a garment: the mothe shall eate them vp.
Isaiah 50:10	Who is among you that feareth the Lord? let him heare the voyce of his seruant: hee that walketh in darkenesse, and hath no light, let him trust in the Name of the Lord, and staye vpon his God.
Isaiah 50:11	Beholde, all you kindle a fire, and are compassed about with sparkes: walke in the light of your fire, and in the sparkes that ye haue kindled. This shall ye haue of mine hand: ye shall lye downe in sorowe.
Isaiah 51:1	Heare me, ye that follow after righteousnes, and ye that seeke the Lord: looke vnto the rocke, whence ye are hewen, and to the hole of the pit, whence ye are digged.
Isaiah 51:2	Consider Abraham your father, and Sarah that bare you: for I called him alone, and blessed him, and increased him.
Isaiah 51:3	Surely the Lord shall comfort Zion: he shall comfort all her desolations, and he shall make her desert like Eden, and her wildernes like the garden of the Lord: ioy and gladnesse shalbe founde therein: praise, and the voyce of singing.
Isaiah 51:4	Hearken ye vnto me, my people, and giue eare vnto me, O my people: for a Law shall proceede from me, and I will bring foorth my iudgement for the light of the people.
Isaiah 51:5	My righteousnes is neere: my saluation goeth foorth, and mine armes shall iudge the people: the yles shall waite for me, and shall trust vnto mine arme.
Isaiah 51:6	Lift vp your eyes to the heauens, and looke vpon the earth beneath: for the heauens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall waxe olde like a garment, and they that dwell therein, shall perish in like maner: but my saluation shall be for euer, and my righteousnesse shall not bee abolished.
Isaiah 51:7	Hearken vnto me, ye that know righteousnesse, the people in whose heart is my Lawe. Feare ye not the reproche of men, neither be ye afraide of their rebukes.
Isaiah 51:8	For the mothe shall eate them vp like a garment, and the worme shall eate them like wool: but my righteousnesse shalbe for euer, and my saluation from generation to generation.
Isaiah 51:9	Rise vp, rise vp, and put on strength, O arme of the Lord: rise vp as in the olde time in the generations of the worlde. Art not thou the same, that hath cutte Rahab, and wounded the dragon?
Isaiah 51:10	Art not thou the same, which hath dried the Sea, euen the waters of the great deepe, making the depth of the Sea a way for the redeemed to passe ouer?
Isaiah 51:11	Therefore the redeemed of the Lord shall returne, and come with ioy vnto Zion, and euerlasting ioy shalbe vpon their head: they shall obtaine ioy, and gladnesse: and sorow and mourning shall flee away.
Isaiah 51:12	I, euen I am he, that comfort you. Who art thou, that thou shouldest feare a mortall man, and the sonne of man, which shalbe made as grasse?
Isaiah 51:13	And forgettest the Lord thy maker, that hath spred out the heauens, and layde the foundations of the earth? and hast feared continually all the day, because of the rage of the oppressour, which is readie to destroy? Where is now the rage of the oppressour?
Isaiah 51:14	The captiue hasteneth to be loosed, and that hee should not die in the pitte, nor that his bread should faile.
Isaiah 51:15	And I am the Lord thy God that deuided the Sea, when his waues roared: the Lord of hostes is his Name.
Isaiah 51:16	And I haue put my wordes in thy mouth, and haue defended thee in the shadowe of mine hand, that I may plant the heauens, and lay the foundation of the earth, and say vnto Zion, Thou art my people.
Isaiah 51:17	Awake, awake, and stande vp, O Ierusalem, which hast drunke at the hande of the Lord the cup of his wrath: thou hast drunken the dregges of the cup of trembling, and wrung them out.
Isaiah 51:18	There is none to guide her among all the sonnes, whome she hath brought foorth: there is none that taketh her by the hand of all the sonnes that she hath brought vp.
Isaiah 51:19	These two thinges are come vnto thee: who will lament thee? desolation and destruction and famine, and the sworde: by whome shall I comfort thee?
Isaiah 51:20	Thy sonnes haue fainted, and lye at the head of all the streetes as a wilde bull in a nette, and are full of the wrath of the Lord, and rebuke of thy God.
Isaiah 51:21	Therefore heare nowe this, thou miserable and drunken, but not with wine.
Isaiah 51:22	Thus saith thy Lord God, euen God that pleadeth the cause of his people, Beholde, I haue taken out of thine hande the cuppe of trembling, euen the dregges of the cuppe of my wrath: thou shalt drinke it no more.
Isaiah 51:23	But I will put it into their hande that spoile thee: which haue said to thy soule, Bowe downe, that wee may goe ouer, and thou hast layde thy bodie as the grounde, and as the streete to them that went ouer.
Isaiah 52:1	Aries, arise: put on thy strength, O Zion: put on thy garments of thy beautie, O Ierusalem, the holy citie: for hencefoorth there shall no more come into thee the vncircumcised and the vncleane.
Isaiah 52:2	Shake thy selfe from the dust: arise, and sit downe, O Ierusalem: loose the bandes of thy necke, O thou captiue daughter, Zion.
Isaiah 52:3	For thus sayeth the Lord, Yee were solde for naught: therefore shall ye be redeemed without money.
Isaiah 52:4	For thus saith the Lord God, My people went downe afore time into Egypt to soiourne there, and Asshur oppressed them without cause.
Isaiah 52:5	Nowe therefore what haue I here, saith the Lord, that my people is taken away for naught, and they that rule ouer them, make them to howle, saith the Lord? and my Name all the day continually is blasphemed?
Isaiah 52:6	Therefore my people shall know my Name: therefore they shall know in that day, that I am he that doe speake: beholde, it is I.
Isaiah 52:7	How beautifull vpon the mountaines are the feete of him, that declareth and publisheth peace? that declareth good tidings, and publisheth saluation, saying vnto Zion, Thy God reigneth?
Isaiah 52:8	The voyce of thy watchmen shalbe heard: they shall lift vp their voyce, and shoute together: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring againe Zion.
Isaiah 52:9	O ye desolate places of Ierusalem, bee glad and reioyce together: for the Lord hath comforted his people: he hath redeemed Ierusalem.
Isaiah 52:10	The Lord hath made bare his holy arme in the sight of all the Gentiles, and all the endes of the earth shall see the saluation of our God.
Isaiah 52:11	Depart, depart ye: goe out from thence and touche no vncleane thing: goe out of the middes of her: be ye cleane, that beare the vessels of the Lord.
Isaiah 52:12	For ye shall not goe out with haste, nor depart by fleeing away: but the Lord will goe before you, and the God of Israel will gather you together.
Isaiah 52:13	Beholde, my seruant shall prosper: he shall be exalted and extolled, and be very hie.
Isaiah 52:14	As many were astonied at thee (his visage was so deformed of men, and his forme of the sonnes of men) so shall hee sprinkle many nations: the Kings shall shut their mouthes at him: for that which had not bene tolde them, shall they see, and that which they had not heard, shall they vnderstande.
Isaiah 53:1	Who will beleeue our report? and to whom is the arme of the Lord reueiled?
Isaiah 53:2	But hee shall growe vp before him as a branche, and as a roote out of a dry grounde: he hath neither forme nor beautie: when we shall see him, there shall be no forme that wee should desire him.
Isaiah 53:3	He is despised and reiected of men: he is a man full of sorowes and hath experience of infirmities: we hidde as it were our faces from him: he was despised and we esteemed him not.
Isaiah 53:4	Surely hee hath borne our infirmities, and caried our sorowes: yet wee did iudge him, as plagued, and smitten of God, and humbled.
Isaiah 53:5	But hee was wounded for our transgressions, hee was broken for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was vpon him, and with his stripes we are healed.
Isaiah 53:6	All we like sheepe haue gone astraye: wee haue turned euery one to his owne way, and the Lord hath layed vpon him the iniquitie of vs all.
Isaiah 53:7	Hee was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet did he not open his mouth: hee is brought as a sheepe to the slaughter, and as a sheepe before her shearer is dumme, so he openeth not his mouth.
Isaiah 53:8	Hee was taken out from prison, and from iudgement: and who shall declare his age? for he was cut out of the lande of the liuing: for the transgression of my people was he plagued.
Isaiah 53:9	And he made his graue with the wicked, and with the riche in his death, though hee had done no wickednesse, neither was any deceite in his mouth.
Isaiah 53:10	Yet the Lord would breake him, and make him subiect to infirmities: when hee shall make his soule an offring for sinne, he shall see his seede and shall prolong his dayes, and the will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand.
Isaiah 53:11	Hee shall see of the trauaile of his soule, and shall be satisfied: by his knowledge shall my righteous seruant iustifie many: for hee shall beare their iniquities.
Isaiah 53:12	Therefore will I giue him a portion with the great, and he shall deuide the spoyle with the strong, because hee hath powred out his soule vnto death: and he was counted with the transgressers, and he bare the sinne of many, and prayed for the trespassers.
Isaiah 54:1	Rejoice, O barren that diddest not beare: breake forth into ioy and reioyce, thou that diddest not trauaile with childe: for the desolate hath moe children then the married wife, sayeth the Lord.
Isaiah 54:2	Enlarge the place of thy tents, and let them spread out the curtains of thine habitations: spare not, stretch out thy cords and make fast thy stakes.
Isaiah 54:3	For thou shalt increase on the right hande and on the left, and thy seede shall possesse the Gentiles, and dwell in the desolate cities.
Isaiah 54:4	Feare not: for thou shalt not be ashamed, neither shalt thou be confounded: for thou shalt not bee put to shame: yea, thou shalt forget the shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the reproch of thy widdowhoode any more.
Isaiah 54:5	For hee that made thee, is thine husband (whose Name is the Lord of hostes) and thy redeemer the Holy one of Israel, shall be called the God of the whole world.
Isaiah 54:6	For the Lord hath called thee, being as a woman forsaken, and afflicted in spirite, and as a yong wife when thou wast refused, sayth thy God.
Isaiah 54:7	For a litle while haue I forsaken thee, but with great compassion will I gather thee.
Isaiah 54:8	For a moment, in mine anger, I hid my face from thee for a litle season, but with euerlasting mercy haue I had compassion on thee, sayth the Lord thy redeemer.
Isaiah 54:9	For this is vnto me as the waters of Noah: for as I haue sworne that the waters of Noah should no more goe ouer the earth, so haue I sworne that I would not be angrie with thee, nor rebuke thee.
Isaiah 54:10	For the mountaines shall remoue and the hilles shall fall downe: but my mercy shall not depart from thee, neither shall the couenant of my peace fall away, saith the Lord, that hath compassion on thee.
Isaiah 54:11	O thou afflicted and tossed with tempest, that hast no comfort, beholde, I wil lay thy stones with the carbuncle, and lay thy foundation with saphirs,
Isaiah 54:12	And I will make thy windowes of emeraudes, and thy gates shining stones, and all thy borders of pleasant stones.
Isaiah 54:13	And all thy children shalbe taught of the Lord, and much peace shalbe to thy children.
Isaiah 54:14	In righteousnes shalt thou be established, and be farre from oppression: for thou shalt not feare it: and from feare, for it shall not come neere thee.
Isaiah 54:15	Beholde, the enemie shall gather himselfe, but without me: whosoeuer shall gather himselfe in thee, against thee, shall fall.
Isaiah 54:16	Beholde, I haue created the smith that bloweth the coales in the fire, and him that bringeth forth an instrument for his worke, and I haue created the destroyer to destroy.
Isaiah 54:17	But all the weapons that are made against thee, shall not prosper: and euery tongue that shall rise against thee in iudgement, thou shalt condemne. This is the heritage of the Lords seruants, and their righteousnesse is of me, sayth the Lord.
Isaiah 55:1	Ho, euery one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and ye that haue no siluer, come, bye and eate: come, I say, bye wine and milke without siluer and without money.
Isaiah 55:2	Wherefore doe ye lay out siluer and not for bread? and your labour without being satisfied? hearken diligently vnto me, and eate that which is good, and let your soule delite in fatnes.
Isaiah 55:3	Encline your eares, and come vnto me: heare, and your soule shall liue, and I will make an euerlasting couenant with you, euen the sure mercies of Dauid.
Isaiah 55:4	Beholde, I gaue him for a witnes to the people, for a prince and a master vnto the people.
Isaiah 55:5	Beholde, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not, and a nation that knew not thee, shall runne vnto thee, because of the Lord thy God, and the holy one of Israel: for hee hath glorified thee.
Isaiah 55:6	Seeke ye the Lord while he may be found: call ye vpon him while he is neere.
Isaiah 55:7	Let the wicked forsake his wayes, and the vnrighteous his owne imaginations, and returne vnto the Lord, and he wil haue mercy vpon him: and to our God, for hee is very ready to forgiue.
Isaiah 55:8	For my thoughtes are not your thoughts, neither are your wayes my wayes, sayth the Lord.
Isaiah 55:9	For as ye heauens are higher then the earth, so are my wayes higher then your wayes, and my thoughtes aboue your thoughts.
Isaiah 55:10	Surely as the raine commeth downe and the snow from heauen, and returneth not thither, but watereth the earth and maketh it to bring forth and bud, that it may giue seede to the sower, and bread vnto him that eateth,
Isaiah 55:11	So shall my worde be, that goeth out of my mouth: it shall not returne vnto me voyde, but it shall accomplish that which I will, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it.
Isaiah 55:12	Therefore ye shall go out with ioy, and be led forth with peace: the mountaines and the hilles shall breake foorth before you into ioye, and all the trees of the fielde shall clap their handes.
Isaiah 55:13	For thornes there shall grow firre trees: for nettles shall growe the myrrhe tree, and it shalbe to the Lord for a name, and for an euerlasting signe that shall not be taken away.
Isaiah 56:1	Thus saith the Lord, Keepe iudgement and doe iustice: for my saluation is at hand to come, and my righteousnes to be reueiled.
Isaiah 56:2	Blessed is the man that doeth this, and the sonne of man which layeth holde on it: hee that keepeth the Sabbath and polluteth it not, and keepeth his hand from doing any euill.
Isaiah 56:3	And let not the sonne of the stranger, which is ioyned to the Lord, speake and say, The Lord hath surely separate me from his people: neither let the Eunuch say, Beholde, I am a drye tree.
Isaiah 56:4	For thus saith the Lord vnto the Eunuches, that keepe my Sabbaths, and chuse the thing that pleaseth me, and take holde of my couenant,
Isaiah 56:5	Euen vnto them wil I giue in mine House and within my walles, a place and a name better then of the sonnes and of the daughters: I will giue them an euerlasting name, that shall not be put out.
Isaiah 56:6	Also the strangers that cleaue vnto the Lord, to serue him, and to loue the Name of the Lord, and to be his seruants: euery one that keepeth the Sabbath, and polluteth it not and imbraceth my couenant,
Isaiah 56:7	Them wil I bring also to mine holy mountaine, and make them ioyfull in mine House of prayer: their burnt offerings and their sacrifices shall be accepted vpon mine altar: for mine House shall be called an house of prayer for all people.
Isaiah 56:8	The Lord God sayth, which gathereth the scattered of Israel, Yet wil I gather to them those that are to be gathered to them.
Isaiah 56:9	All ye beastes of the fielde, come to deuoure, euen all ye beastes of the forest.
Isaiah 56:10	Their watchmen are all blinde: they haue no knowledge: they are all dumme dogs: they can not barke: they lie and sleepe and delite in sleeping.
Isaiah 56:11	And these griedy dogs can neuer haue ynough: and these shepheards cannot vnderstand: for they all looke to their owne way, euery one for his aduantage, and for his owne purpose.
Isaiah 56:12	Come, I wil bring wine, and we wil fill our selues with strong drinke, and to morowe shalbe as this day, and much more abundant.
Isaiah 57:1	The righteous perisheth, and no man considereth it in heart: and mercifull men are taken away, and no man vnderstandeth that the righteous is taken away from the euill to come.
Isaiah 57:2	Peace shall come: they shall rest in their beds, euery one that walketh before him.
Isaiah 57:3	But you witches children, come hither, the seede of the adulterer and of the whore.
Isaiah 57:4	On whome haue ye iested? vpon whome haue ye gaped and thrust out your tongue? are not ye rebellious children, and a false seede?
Isaiah 57:5	Inflamed with idoles vnder euery greene tree? and sacrificing the children in the valleys vnder the tops of the rocks?
Isaiah 57:6	Thy portion is in the smooth stones of the riuer: they, they are thy lot: euen to them hast thou powred a drinke offering: thou hast offered a sacrifice. Should I delite in these?
Isaiah 57:7	Thou hast made thy bed vpon a very hie mountaine: thou wentest vp thither, euen thither wentest thou to offer sacrifice.
Isaiah 57:8	Behinde the doores also and postes hast thou set vp thy remembrance: for thou hast discouered thy selfe to another then me, and wentest vp, and diddest enlarge thy bed, and make a couenant betweene thee and them, and louedst their bed in euery place where thou sawest it.
Isaiah 57:9	Thou wentest to the Kings with oyle, and diddest increase thine oyntments and sende thy messengers farre off, and diddest humble thy selfe vnto hell.
Isaiah 57:10	Thou weariedst thy selfe in thy manifolde iourneys, yet saydest thou not, There is no hope: thou hast found life by thine hand, therefore thou wast not grieued.
Isaiah 57:11	And whome diddest thou reuerence or feare, seeing thou hast lyed vnto me, and hast not remembred me, neither set thy minde thereon? is it not because I holde my peace, and that of long time? therefore thou fearest not me.
Isaiah 57:12	I will declare thy righteousnes and thy workes, and they shall not profite thee.
Isaiah 57:13	When thou cryest, let them that thou hast gathered together deliuer thee: but the winde shall take them all away: vanitie shall pull them away: but he that trusteth in me, shall inherite the lande, and shall possesse mine holy Mountaine.
Isaiah 57:14	And he shall say, Cast vp, cast vp: prepare the way: take vp the stumbling blocks out of the way of my people.
Isaiah 57:15	For thus sayth he that is hie and excellent, he that inhabiteth the eternitie, whose Name is the Holy one, I dwell in the high and holy place: with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirite to reuiue the spirite of the humble, and to giue life to them that are of a contrite heart.
Isaiah 57:16	For I will not contende for euer, neither will I be alwayes wroth, for the spirite should fayle before me: and I haue made the breath.
Isaiah 57:17	For his wicked couetousnesse I am angry with him, and haue smitten him: I hid mee and was angry, yet he went away, and turned after the way of his owne heart.
Isaiah 57:18	I haue seene his wayes, and wil heale him: I wil leade him also, and restore comfort vnto him, and to those that lament him.
Isaiah 57:19	I create the fruite of the lips, to be peace: peace vnto them that are farre off, and to them that are neere, sayth the Lord: for I will heale him.
Isaiah 57:20	But the wicked are like the raging sea, that can not rest, whose waters cast vp myre and dirt.
Isaiah 57:21	There is no peace, sayth my God, to the wicked.
Isaiah 58:1	Crye aloude, spare not: lift vp thy voyce like a trumpet, and shewe my people their transgression, and to the house of Iaakob, their sinnes.
Isaiah 58:2	Yet they seeke me dayly, and will knowe my wayes, euen as a nation that did righteously, and had not forsaken the statutes of their God: they aske of me the ordinances of iustice: they wil drawe neere vnto God, saying,
Isaiah 58:3	Wherefore haue we fasted, and thou seest it not? we haue punished our selues, and thou regardest it not. Beholde, in the day of your fast you will seeke your will, and require all your dettes.
Isaiah 58:4	Beholde, ye fast to strife and debate, and to smite with the fist of wickednesse: ye shall not fast as ye doe to day, to make your voyce to be heard aboue.
Isaiah 58:5	Is it such a fast that I haue chosen, that a man should afflict his soule for a day, and to bowe downe his head, as a bull rush, and to lie downe in sackecloth and ashes? wilt thou call this a fasting, or an acceptable day to the Lord?
Isaiah 58:6	Is not this the fasting, that I haue chosen, to loose the bandes of wickednes, to take off the heauie burdens, and to let the oppressed goe free, and that ye breake euery yoke?
Isaiah 58:7	Is it not to deale thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poore that wander, vnto thine house? when thou seest the naked, that thou couer him, and hide not thy selfe from thine owne flesh?
Isaiah 58:8	Then shall thy light breake foorth as the morning, and thine health shall grow speedily: thy righteousnes shall goe before thee, and the glorie of the Lord shall embrace thee.
Isaiah 58:9	Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answere: thou shalt cry and hee shall say, Here I am: if thou take away from the mids of thee the yoke, the putting foorth of the finger, and wicked speaking:
Isaiah 58:10	If thou powre out thy soule to the hungrie, and refresh the troubled soule: then shall thy light spring out in the darkenes, and thy darkenes shalbe as the noone day.
Isaiah 58:11	And the Lord shall guide thee continually, and satisfie thy soule in drought, and make fat thy bones: and thou shalt be like a watred garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters faile not.
Isaiah 58:12	And they shalbe of thee, that shall builde the olde waste places: thou shalt rayse vp the foundations for many generations, and thou shalt be called the repairer of the breach and the restorer of the pathes to dwell in.
Isaiah 58:13	If thou turne away thy foote from the Sabbath, from doing thy will on mine holy day, and call the Sabbath a delite, to consecrate it, as glorious to the Lord, and shalt honour him, not doing thine owne wayes, nor seeking thine owne will, nor speaking a vaine word,
Isaiah 58:14	Then shalt thou delite in the Lord, and I wil cause thee to mount vpon the hie places of the earth, and feede thee with the heritage of Iaakob thy father: for the mouth of ye Lord hath spoken it.
Isaiah 59:1	Beholde, the Lordes hande is not shortened, that it can not saue: neither is his eare heauie, that it cannot heare.
Isaiah 59:2	But your iniquities haue separated betweene you and your God, and your sinnes haue hidde his face from you, that he will not heare.
Isaiah 59:3	For your handes are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquitie: your lips haue spoken lies and your tongue hath murmured iniquitie.
Isaiah 59:4	No man calleth for iustice: no man contendeth for trueth: they trust in vanitie, and speake vaine things: they conceiue mischiefe, and bring foorth iniquitie.
Isaiah 59:5	They hatch cockatrice egges, and weaue the spiders webbe: he that eateth of their egges, dieth, and that which is trode vpon, breaketh out into a serpent.
Isaiah 59:6	Their webbes shall be no garment, neither shall they couer themselues with their labours: for their workes are workes of iniquitie, and the worke of crueltie is in their handes.
Isaiah 59:7	Their feete runne to euill, and they make haste to shed innocent blood: their thoughts are wicked thoughts: desolation and destruction is in their paths.
Isaiah 59:8	The way of peace they knowe not, and there is none equitie in their goings: they haue made them crooked paths: whosoeuer goeth therein, shall not knowe peace.
Isaiah 59:9	Therefore is iudgement farre from vs, neither doeth iustice come neere vnto vs: we waite for light, but loe, it is darkenesse: for brightnesse, but we walke in darkenesse.
Isaiah 59:10	Wee grope for the wall like the blinde, and we grope as one without eyes: we stumble at the noone day as in the twilight: we are in solitarie places, as dead men.
Isaiah 59:11	We roare all like beares, and mourne like dooues: wee looke for equitie, but there is none: for health, but it is farre from vs.
Isaiah 59:12	For our trespasses are many before thee, and our sinnes testifie against vs: for our trespasses are with vs, and we knowe our iniquities
Isaiah 59:13	In trespassing and lying against the Lord, and wee haue departed away from our God, and haue spoken of crueltie and rebellion, conceiuing and vttering out of the heart false matters.
Isaiah 59:14	Therefore iudgement is turned backewarde, and iustice standeth farre off: for trueth is fallen in the streete, and equitie cannot enter.
Isaiah 59:15	Yea, trueth faileth, and hee that refraineth from euill, maketh himselfe a praye: and when the Lord sawe it, it displeased him, that there was no iudgement.
Isaiah 59:16	And when he sawe that there was no man, hee wondered that none woulde offer him selfe. Therefore his arme did saue it, and his righteousnes it selfe did sustaine it.
Isaiah 59:17	For he put on righteousnes, as an habergeon, and an helmet of saluation vpon his head, and he put on the garments of vengeance for clothing, and was clad with zeale as a cloke.
Isaiah 59:18	As to make recompence, as to requite the furie of the aduersaries with a recompence to his enemies: he will fully repaire the ylands.
Isaiah 59:19	So shall they feare the Name of the Lord from the West, and his glory from the rising of the sunne: for the enemie shall come like a flood: but the Spirit of the Lord shall chase him away.
Isaiah 59:20	And the Redeemer shall come vnto Zion, and vnto them that turne from iniquitie in Iaakob, saith the Lord.
Isaiah 59:21	And I will make this my couenant with them, saith the Lord. My Spirit that is vpon thee, and my wordes, which I haue put in thy mouth, shall not depart out of thy mouth, nor out of the mouth of thy seede, nor out of the mouth of the seede of thy seede, saith the Lord, from hencefoorth euen for euer.
Isaiah 60:1	Arise, O Ierusalem: be bright, for thy light is come, and the glorie of the Lord is risen vpon thee.
Isaiah 60:2	For beholde, darkenesse shall couer the earth, and grosse darkenesse the people: but the Lord shall arise vpon thee, and his glory shall be seene vpon thee.
Isaiah 60:3	And the Gentiles shall walke in thy light, and Kings at the brightnesse of thy rising vp.
Isaiah 60:4	Lift vp thine eyes round about, and beholde: all these are gathered, and come to thee: thy sonnes shall come from farre, and thy daughters shalbe nourished at thy side.
Isaiah 60:5	Then thou shalt see and shine: thine heart shall be astonied and enlarged, because the multitude of the sea shalbe conuerted vnto thee, and the riches of the Gentiles shall come vnto thee.
Isaiah 60:6	The multitude of camels shall couer thee: and the dromedaries of Midian and of Ephah: all they of Sheba shall come: they shall bring golde and incense, and shewe foorth the prayses of the Lord.
Isaiah 60:7	All the sheepe of Kedar shall be gathered vnto thee: the rammes of Nebaioth shall serue thee: they shall come vp to bee accepted vpon mine altar: and I will beautifie the house of my glorie.
Isaiah 60:8	Who are these that flee like a cloude, and as the doues to their windowes?
Isaiah 60:9	Surely the yles shall waite for mee, and the shippes of Tarshish, as at the beginning, that they may bring thy sonnes from farre, and their siluer, and their golde with them, vnto the Name of the Lord thy God, and to the Holy one of Israel, because he hath glorified thee.
Isaiah 60:10	And the sonnes of strangers shall builde vp thy walles, and their Kings shall minister vnto thee: for in my wrath I smote thee, but in my mercie I had compassion on thee.
Isaiah 60:11	Therefore thy gates shalbe open continually: neither day nor night shall they be shutte, that men may bring vnto thee the riches of the Gentiles, and that their Kings may be brought.
Isaiah 60:12	For the nation and the kingdome, that will not serue thee, shall perish: and those nations shalbe vtterly destroyed.
Isaiah 60:13	The glory of Lebanon shall come vnto thee, the firre tree, the elme and the boxe tree together, to beautifie the place of my Sanctuarie: for I will glorifie the place of my feete.
Isaiah 60:14	The sonnes also of them that afflicted thee, shall come and bowe vnto thee: and all they that despised thee, shall fall downe at the soles of thy feete: and they shall call thee, The citie of the Lord, Zion of the Holy one of Israel.
Isaiah 60:15	Where as thou hast bene forsaken and hated: so that no man went by thee, I will make thee an eternall glorie, and a ioye from generation to generation.
Isaiah 60:16	Thou shalt also sucke ye milke of the Gentiles, and shalt sucke the breastes of Kings: and thou shalt know, that I the Lord am thy Sauiour, and thy Redeemer, the mightie one of Iaakob.
Isaiah 60:17	For brasse will I bring golde, and for yron will I bring siluer, and for wood brasse, and for stones yron. I will also make thy gouernement peace, and thine exactours righteousnesse.
Isaiah 60:18	Violence shall no more be heard of in thy land, neither desolation, nor destruction within thy borders: but thou shalt call saluation, thy walles, and praise, thy gates.
Isaiah 60:19	Thou shalt haue no more sunne to shine by day, neither shall the brightnesse of the moone shine vnto thee: for the Lord shall be thine euerlasting light, and thy God, thy glorie.
Isaiah 60:20	Thy sunne shall neuer goe downe, neither shall thy moone be hid: for the Lord shalbe thine euerlasting light, and the dayes of thy sorowe shalbe ended.
Isaiah 60:21	Thy people also shalbe all righteous: they shall possesse the land for euer, the grasse of my planting shalbe the worke of mine handes, that I may be glorified.
Isaiah 60:22	A litle one shall become as a thousande, and a small one as a strong nation: I the Lord wil hasten it in due time.
Isaiah 61:1	The Spirit of the Lord God is vpon mee, therefore hath the Lord anoynted mee: hee hath sent mee to preache good tidings vnto the poore, to binde vp the broken hearted, to preach libertie to the captiues, and to them that are bound, the opening of the prison,
Isaiah 61:2	To preache the acceptable yeere of the Lord, and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all that mourne,
Isaiah 61:3	To appoint vnto them that mourne in Zion, and to giue vnto them beautie for ashes, the oyle of ioye for mourning, the garment of gladnesse for the spirit of heauinesse, that they might be called trees of righteousnesse, the planting of the Lord, that he might be glorified.
Isaiah 61:4	And they shall builde the olde waste places, and raise vp the former desolations, and they shall repaire the cities that were desolate and waste through many generations.
Isaiah 61:5	And the strangers shall stande and feede your sheepe, and the sonnes of the strangers shall be your plowmen and dressers of your vines.
Isaiah 61:6	But ye shall be named the Priestes of the Lord, and men shall say vnto you, The ministers of our God, Ye shall eate the riches of the Gentiles, and shalbe exalted with their glorie.
Isaiah 61:7	For your shame you shall receiue double, and for confusion they shall reioyce in their portion: for in their lande they shall possesse the double: euerlasting ioy shall be vnto them.
Isaiah 61:8	For I the Lord loue iudgement and hate robberie for burnt offering, and I wil direct their worke in trueth, and will make an euerlasting couenant with them.
Isaiah 61:9	And their seede shall be knowen among the Gentiles, and their buddes among the people. All that see them, shall know them, that they are the seede which the Lord hath blessed.
Isaiah 61:10	I will greatly reioyce in the Lord, and my soule shall be ioyfull in my God: for he hath clothed mee with the garments of saluation, and couered me with the robe of righteousnes: hee hath decked me like a bridegrome, and as a bride tireth herselfe with her iewels.
Isaiah 61:11	For as the earth bringeth foorth her bud, and as the garden causeth to growe that which is sowen in it: so the Lord God will cause righteousnesse to grow and praise before all the heathen.
Isaiah 62:1	For Zions sake I will not holde my tongue, and for Ierusalems sake I wil not rest, vntil the righteousnes thereof breake foorth as the light, and saluation thereof as a burning lampe.
Isaiah 62:2	And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousnesse, and all Kings thy glory: and thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord shall name.
Isaiah 62:3	Thou shalt also be a crowne of glory in the hand of the Lord, and a royall diademe in the hand of thy God.
Isaiah 62:4	It shall no more be sayd vnto thee, Forsaken, neither shall it be said any more to thy land, Desolate, but thou shalt be called Hephzi-bah, and thy land Beulah: for the Lord deliteth in thee, and thy land shall haue an husband.
Isaiah 62:5	For as a yong man marieth a virgine, so shall thy sonnes marry thee: and as a bridegrome is glad of the bride, so shall thy God reioyce ouer thee.
Isaiah 62:6	I haue set watchmen vpon thy walles, O Ierusalem, which all the day and all the night continually shall not cease: ye that are mindfull of the Lord, keepe not silence,
Isaiah 62:7	And giue him no rest, till hee repaire and vntill hee set vp Ierusalem the prayse of the worlde.
Isaiah 62:8	The Lord hath sworne by his right hand and by his strong arme, Surely I wil no more giue thy corne to be meate for thine enemies, and surely the sonnes of the strangers shall not drinke thy wine, for the which thou hast laboured.
Isaiah 62:9	But they that haue gathered it, shall eate it, and prayse the Lord, and the gatherers thereof shall drinke it in the courtes of my Sanctuarie.
Isaiah 62:10	Go through, go through the gates: prepare you the way for the people: cast vp, cast vp the way, and gather out the stones and set vp a standart for the people.
Isaiah 62:11	Beholde, the Lord hath proclaimed vnto the endes of the world: tell the daughter Zion, Beholde, thy Sauiour commeth: beholde, his wages is with him, and his worke is before him.
Isaiah 62:12	And they shall call them, The holy people, the redeemed of the Lord, and thou shalt be named, A citie sought out and not forsaken.
Isaiah 63:1	Who is this that commeth from Edom, with red garments from Bozrah? hee is glorious in his apparel and walketh in his great strength: I speake in righteousnesse, and am mightie to saue.
Isaiah 63:2	Wherefore is thine apparel red, and thy garments like him that treadeth in ye wine presse?
Isaiah 63:3	I haue troden the wine presse alone, and of all people there was none with mee: for I will treade them in mine anger, and tread them vnder foote in my wrath, and their blood shalbe sprinkled vpon my garments, and I will staine all my raiment.
Isaiah 63:4	For the day of vengeance is in mine heart, and the yeere of my redeemed is come.
Isaiah 63:5	And I looked, and there was none to helpe, and I wondered that there was none to vpholde: therefore mine owne arme helped me, and my wrath it selfe sustained me.
Isaiah 63:6	Therefore I wil tread downe the people in my wrath, and make them drunken in mine indignation, and wil bring downe their strength to the earth.
Isaiah 63:7	I wil remember the mercies of the Lord and the prayses of the Lord according vnto all that the Lord hath giuen vs, and for the great goodnesse toward the house of Israel, which hee hath giuen them according to his tender loue, and according to his great mercies.
Isaiah 63:8	For he saide, Surely they are my people, children that wil not lie: so he was their Sauiour.
Isaiah 63:9	In all their troubles he was troubled, and the Angel of his presence saued them: in his loue and in his mercie he redeemed them, and he bare them and caried them alwayes continually.
Isaiah 63:10	But they rebelled and vexed his holy Spirit: therefore was hee turned to be their enemie and he fought against them.
Isaiah 63:11	Then he remembred the olde time of Moses and his people, saying, Where is hee that brought them vp out of the Sea with the shepheard of his sheepe? where is he that put his holy Spirit within him?
Isaiah 63:12	He led them by the right hand of Moses with his owne glorious arme, deuiding the water before them, to make himselfe an euerlasting Name.
Isaiah 63:13	Hee led them through the deepe, as an horse in the wildernesse, that they should not stumble,
Isaiah 63:14	As the beast goeth downe into the valley, the Spirite of the Lord gaue them rest: so diddest thou leade thy people, to make thy selfe a glorious Name.
Isaiah 63:15	Looke downe from heauen, and beholde from the dwelling place of thine holines, and of thy glory. Where is thy zeale and thy strength, the multitude of thy mercies, and of thy compassions? they are restrained from me.
Isaiah 63:16	Doutles thou art our Father: though Abraham be ignorant of vs, and Israel knowe vs not, yet thou, O Lord, art our Father, and our redeemer: thy Name is for euer.
Isaiah 63:17	O Lord, why hast thou made vs to erre from thy wayes? and hardened our heart from thy feare? Returne for thy seruants sake, and for the tribes of thine inheritance.
Isaiah 63:18	The people of thine holinesse haue possessed it, but a litle while: for our aduersaries haue troden downe thy Sanctuarie.
Isaiah 63:19	We haue bene as they, ouer whome thou neuer barest rule, and vpon whom thy Name was not called.
Isaiah 64:1	Oh, that thou wouldest breake the heauens, and come downe, and that the mountaines might melt at thy presence!
Isaiah 64:2	As the melting fire burned, as the fire caused the waters to boyle, (that thou mightest declare thy Name to thy aduersaries) the people did tremble at thy presence.
Isaiah 64:3	When thou diddest terrible things, which we looked not for, thou camest downe, and the mountaines melted at thy presence.
Isaiah 64:4	For since the beginning of the world they haue not heard nor vnderstande with the eare, neither hath ye eye seene another God beside thee, which doeth so to him that waiteth for him.
Isaiah 64:5	Thou diddest meete him, that reioyced in thee, and did iustly: they remembred thee in thy wayes: beholde, thou art angrie, for we haue sinned: yet in them is continuance, and we shall be saued.
Isaiah 64:6	But we haue all bene as an vncleane thing, and all our righteousnes is as filthie cloutes, and we all doe fade like a leafe, and our iniquities like the winde haue taken vs away.
Isaiah 64:7	And there is none that calleth vpon thy Name, neither that stirreth vp himselfe to take holde of thee: for thou hast hid thy face from vs, and hast consumed vs because of our iniquities.
Isaiah 64:8	But now, O Lord, thou art our Father: we are the clay, and thou art our potter, and we all are the worke of thine hands.
Isaiah 64:9	Be not angry, O Lord, aboue measure, neither remember iniquitie for euer: lo, we beseech thee beholde, we are all thy people.
Isaiah 64:10	Thine holy cities lye waste: Zion is a wildernes, and Ierusalem a desart.
Isaiah 64:11	The House of our Sanctuarie and of our glorie, where our fathers praysed thee, is burnt vp with fire and all our pleasant things are wasted.
Isaiah 64:12	Wilt thou holde thy selfe still at these things, O Lord? wilt thou holde thy peace and afflict vs aboue measure?
Isaiah 65:1	I have bene sought of them that asked not: I was found of them that sought me not: I sayd, Beholde me, beholde me, vnto a nation that called not vpon my Name.
Isaiah 65:2	I haue spred out mine handes all the day vnto a rebellious people, which walked in a way that was not good, euen after their owne imaginations:
Isaiah 65:3	A people that prouoked me euer vnto my face: that sacrificeth in gardens, and burneth incense vpon brickes.
Isaiah 65:4	Which remaine among the graues, and lodge in the desarts, which eate swines flesh, and the broth of things polluted are in their vessels.
Isaiah 65:5	Which say, Stand apart, come not neere to me: for I am holier then thou: these are a smoke in my wrath and a fire that burneth all the day.
Isaiah 65:6	Beholde, it is written before me: I wil not keepe silence, but will render it and recompense it into their bosome.
Isaiah 65:7	Your iniquities and the iniquities of your fathers shalbe together (sayth the Lord) which haue burnt incense vpon the mountaines, and blasphemed me vpon the hilles: therefore wil I measure their olde worke into their bosome.
Isaiah 65:8	Thus sayth the Lord, As the wine is found in the cluster, and one sayth, Destroy it not, for a blessing is in it, so will I doe for my seruants sakes, that I may not destroy them whole.
Isaiah 65:9	But I will bring a seede out of Iaakob, and out of Iudah, that shall inherit my mountaine: and mine elect shall inherit it, and my seruants shall dwell there.
Isaiah 65:10	And Sharon shalbe a sheepefolde, and the valley of Achor shalbe a resting place for the cattell of my people, that haue sought me.
Isaiah 65:11	But ye are they that haue forsaken the Lord and forgotten mine holy Mountaine, and haue prepared a table for the multitude, and furnish the drinke offerings vnto the number.
Isaiah 65:12	Therefore wil I number you to the sword, and all you shall bowe downe to the slaughter, because I called, and ye did not answere: I spake, and ye heard not, but did euil in my sight, and did chuse that thing which I would not.
Isaiah 65:13	Therefore thus saith the Lord God, Beholde, my seruants shall eate, and ye shalbe hungrie: beholde, my seruants shall drinke, and ye shall be thirstie: beholde, my seruants shall reioyce, and ye shalbe ashamed.
Isaiah 65:14	Beholde, my seruants shall sing for ioye of heart, and ye shall crye for sorow of heart, and shall howle for vexation of minde.
Isaiah 65:15	And ye shall leaue your name as a curse vnto my chosen: for the Lord God shall slay you and call his seruants by another name.
Isaiah 65:16	He that shall blesse in the earth, shall blesse himselfe in the true God, and he that sweareth in the earth, shall sweare by the true God: for the former troubles are forgotten, and shall surely hide themselues from mine eyes.
Isaiah 65:17	For lo, I will create newe heauens and a new earth: and the former shall not be remembred nor come into minde.
Isaiah 65:18	But be you glad and reioyce for euer in the things that I shall create: for beholde, I will create Ierusalem, as a reioycing and her people as a ioye,
Isaiah 65:19	And I wil reioyce in Ierusalem, and ioye in my people, and the voyce of weeping shall be no more heard in her, nor the voyce of crying.
Isaiah 65:20	There shall be no more there a childe of yeeres, nor an olde man that hath not filled his dayes: for he that shall be an hundreth yeeres old, shall dye as a yong man: but the sinner being an hundreth yeeres olde shall be accursed.
Isaiah 65:21	And they shall build houses and inhabite them, and they shall plant vineyards, and eate the fruite of them.
Isaiah 65:22	They shall not build, and another inhabite: they shall not plant, and another eate: for as the dayes of the tree are the dayes of my people, and mine elect shall inioye in olde age the worke of their handes.
Isaiah 65:23	They shall not labour in vaine, nor bring forth in feare: for they are the seede of the blessed of the Lord, and their buds with them.
Isaiah 65:24	Yea, before they call, I will answere, and whiles they speake, I will heare.
Isaiah 65:25	The wolfe and the lambe shall feede together, and the lyon shall eate strawe like the bullocke: and to the serpent dust shall be his meate. They shall no more hurt nor destroy in all mine holy Mountaine, saith the Lord.
Isaiah 66:1	Thus saith the Lord, The heauen is my throne, and the earth is my footestoole: where is that house that ye will builde vnto me? and where is that place of my rest?
Isaiah 66:2	For all these things hath mine hand made, and all these things haue bene, sayth the Lord: and to him will I looke, euen to him, that is poore, and of a contrite spirite and trembleth at my wordes.
Isaiah 66:3	He that killeth a bullocke, is as if he slewe a man: he that sacrificeth a sheepe, as if he cut off a dogges necke: he that offereth an oblation, as if he offered swines blood: he that remembreth incense, as if he blessed an idole: yea, they haue chosen their owne wayes, and their soule deliteth in their abominations.
Isaiah 66:4	Therefore will I chuse out their delusions, and I will bring their feare vpon them, because I called, and none woulde answere: I spake and they woulde not heare: but they did euill in my sight, and chose the things which I would not.
Isaiah 66:5	Heare the worde of the Lord, all ye that tremble at his worde, Your brethren that hated you, and cast you out for my Names sake, said, Let the Lord be glorified: but he shall appeare to your ioy, and they shall be ashamed.
Isaiah 66:6	A voyce soundeth from the citie, euen a voyce from the Temple, the voyce of the Lord, that recompenseth his enemies fully.
Isaiah 66:7	Before she trauailed, she brought foorth: and before her paine came, she was deliuered of a man childe.
Isaiah 66:8	Who hath heard such a thing? who hath seene such things? shall ye earth be brought forth in one day? or shall a nation be borne at once? for assoone as Zion trauailed, she brought foorth her children.
Isaiah 66:9	Shall I cause to trauaile, and not bring forth? shall I cause to bring forth, and shall be baren, saith thy God?
Isaiah 66:10	Reioyce ye with Ierusalem, and be gladde with her, all ye that loue her: reioyce for ioy with her, all ye that mourne for her,
Isaiah 66:11	That ye may sucke and be satisfied with the brestes of her consolation: that ye may milke out and be delited with ye brightnes of her glorie.
Isaiah 66:12	For thus saith the Lord, Beholde, I will extend peace ouer her like a flood, and the glorie of the Gentiles like a flowing streame: then shall ye sucke, ye shall be borne vpon her sides, and be ioyfull vpon her knees.
Isaiah 66:13	As one whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you, and ye shall be comforted in Ierusalem.
Isaiah 66:14	And when ye see this, your hearts shall reioyce, and your bones shall flourish like an herbe: and the hand of the Lord shall be knowen among his seruants, and his indignation against his enemies.
Isaiah 66:15	For beholde, the Lord will come with fire, and his charets like a whirlewinde, that he may recompence his anger with wrath, and his indignation with the flame of fire.
Isaiah 66:16	For the Lord will iudge with fire, and with his sworde all flesh, and the slaine of the Lord shall be many.
Isaiah 66:17	They that sanctifie themselues, and purifie themselues in the gardens behinde one tree in the middes eating swines flesh, and such abomination, euen the mouse, shall be consumed together, sayeth the Lord.
Isaiah 66:18	For I will visite their workes, and their imaginations: for it shall come that I will gather all nations, and tongues, and they shall come, and see my glorie.
Isaiah 66:19	And I will set a signe among them, and will send those that escape of them, vnto the nations of Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, and to them that drawe the bowe, to Tubal and Tauan, yles afarre off, that haue not heard my fame, neither haue seene my glorie, and they shall declare my glorie among the Gentiles.
Isaiah 66:20	And they shall bring all your brethren for an offering vnto the Lord out of all nations, vpon horses, and in charets, and in horse litters, and vpon mules, and swift beastes, to Ierusalem mine holy Mountaine, saith the Lord, as the children of Israel, offer in a cleane vessell in the House of the Lord.
Isaiah 66:21	And I will take of them for Priestes, and for Leuites, saith the Lord.
Isaiah 66:22	For as the newe heauens, and the newe earth which I will make, shall remaine before me, saith the Lord, so shall your seede and your name continue.
Isaiah 66:23	And from moneth to moneth, and from Sabbath to Sabbath shall all flesh come to worship before me, saith the Lord.
Isaiah 66:24	And they shall goe forth, and looke vpon the carkases of the men that haue transgressed against me: for their worme shall not dye, neither shall their fire be quenched, and they shalbe an abhorring vnto all flesh.

===== BOOK: James =====
James 1:1	Iames a seruant of God, and of the Lord Iesus Christ, to the twelue Tribes, which are scattered abroade, salutation.
James 1:2	My brethren, count it exceeding ioy, when ye fall into diuers tentations,
James 1:3	Knowing that ye trying of your faith bringeth forth patience,
James 1:4	And let patience haue her perfect worke, that ye may be perfect and entier, lacking nothing.
James 1:5	If any of you lacke wisedome, let him aske of God, which giueth to all men liberally, and reprocheth no man, and it shalbe giuen him.
James 1:6	But let him aske in faith, and wauer not: for hee that wauereth, is like a waue of the sea, tost of the winde, and caried away.
James 1:7	Neither let that man thinke that hee shall receiue any thing of the Lord.
James 1:8	A double minded man is vnstable in all his waies.
James 1:9	Let the brother of lowe degree reioyce in that he is exalted:
James 1:10	Againe hee that is rich, in that hee is made lowe: for as the flower of the grasse, shall he vanish away.
James 1:11	For as when the sunne riseth with heate, then the grasse withereth, and his flower falleth away, and the goodly shape of it perisheth: euen so shall the rich man wither away in all his waies.
James 1:12	Blessed is ye man, that endureth tentation: for when he is tried, hee shall receiue the crowne of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that loue him.
James 1:13	Let no man say when hee is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God can not bee tempted with euill, neither tempteth he any man.
James 1:14	But euery man is tempted, when hee is drawen away by his owne concupiscence, and is entised.
James 1:15	Then when lust hath conceiued, it bringeth foorth sinne, and sinne when it is finished, bringeth foorth death.
James 1:16	Erre not, my deare brethren.
James 1:17	Euery good giuing, and euery perfect gift is from aboue, and commeth downe from the Father of lights, with whome is no variablenes, neither shadow of turning.
James 1:18	Of his owne will begate hee vs with the woorde of trueth, that we shoulde be as the first fruites of his creatures.
James 1:19	Wherefore my deare brethren, let euery man be swift to heare, slowe to speake, and slowe to wrath.
James 1:20	For the wrath of man doeth not accomplish the righteousnesse of God.
James 1:21	Wherefore lay apart all filthinesse, and superfluitie of maliciousnesse, and receiue with meekenes the word that is graffed in you, which is able to saue your soules.
James 1:22	And be ye doers of the word, and not hearers onely, deceiuing your owne selues.
James 1:23	For if any heare the woorde, and doe it not, he is like vnto a man, that beholdeth his naturall face in a glasse.
James 1:24	For when he hath considered himselfe, hee goeth his way, and forgetteth immediately what maner of one he was.
James 1:25	But who so looketh in the perfect Lawe of libertie, and continueth therein, hee not being a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the woorke, shalbe blessed in his deede.
James 1:26	If any man amog you seeme religious, and refraineth not his tongue, but deceiueth his owne heart, this mans religion is vaine.
James 1:27	Pure religion and vndefiled before God, euen the Father, is this, to visite the fatherlesse, and widdowes in their aduersitie, and to keepe himselfe vnspotted of the world.
James 2:1	My brethren, haue not the faith of our glorious Lord Iesus Christ in respect of persons.
James 2:2	For if there come into your company a man with a golde ring, and in goodly apparell, and there come in also a poore man in vile raiment,
James 2:3	And ye haue a respect to him that weareth the gaie clothing; and say vnto him, Sit thou here in a goodly place, and say vnto the poore, Stand thou there, or sit here vnder my footestoole,
James 2:4	Are yee not partiall in your selues, and are become iudges of euill thoughts?
James 2:5	Hearken my beloued brethren, hath not God chosen the poore of this worlde, that they should be rich in faith, and heires of the kingdome which he promised to them that loue him?
James 2:6	But ye haue despised the poore. Doe not the riche oppresse you by tyrannie, and doe not they drawe you before the iudgement seates?
James 2:7	Doe nor they blaspheme the worthie Name after which yee be named?
James 2:8	But if yee fulfill the royall Lawe according to the Scripture, which saith, Thou shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe, yee doe well.
James 2:9	But if yee regarde the persons, yee commit sinne, and are rebuked of the Lawe, as transgressours.
James 2:10	For whosoeuer shall keepe the whole Lawe, and yet faileth in one poynt, hee is guiltie of all.
James 2:11	For he that saide, Thou shalt not commit adulterie, saide also, Thou shalt not kill. Nowe though thou doest none adulterie, yet if thou killest, thou art a transgressour of the Lawe.
James 2:12	So speake ye, and so doe, as they that shall be iudged by the Lawe of libertie.
James 2:13	For there shalbe condemnation merciles to him that sheweth not mercie, and mercie reioyceth against condemnation.
James 2:14	What auaileth it, my brethren, though a man saith he hath faith, when he hath no workes? can that faith saue him?
James 2:15	For if a brother or a sister bee naked and destitute of daily foode,
James 2:16	And one of you say vnto them, Depart in peace: warme your selues, and fil your bellies, notwithstading ye giue them not those things which are needefull to the body, what helpeth it?
James 2:17	Euen so the faith, if it haue no woorkes, is dead in it selfe.
James 2:18	But some man might say, Thou hast the faith, and I haue woorkes: shewe me thy faith out of thy woorkes, and I will shewe thee my faith by my woorkes.
James 2:19	Thou beleeuest that there is one God: thou doest well: the deuils also beleeue it, and tremble.
James 2:20	But wilt thou vnderstand, O thou vaine man, that the faith which is without workes, is dead?
James 2:21	Was not Abraham our father iustified through workes, when he offred Isaac his sonne vpon the altar?
James 2:22	Seest thou not that the faith wrought with his workes? and through the workes was the faith made perfect.
James 2:23	And the Scripture was fulfilled which sayeth, Abraham beleeued God, and it was imputed vnto him for righteousnesse: and hee was called the friende of God.
James 2:24	Ye see then howe that of workes a man is iustified, and not of faith onely.
James 2:25	Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot iustified through workes, when she had receiued ye messengers, and sent them out another way?
James 2:26	For as the body without ye spirit is dead, euen so the faith without workes is dead.
James 3:1	My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receiue the greater condemnation.
James 3:2	For in many things we sinne all. If any man sinne not in word, he is a perfect man, and able to bridle all the body.
James 3:3	Beholde, we put bittes into the horses mouthes, that they should obey vs, and we turne about all their bodie.
James 3:4	Behold also the shippes, which though they be so great, and are driuen of fierce windes, yet are they turned about with a very small rudder, whither soeuer the gouernour listeth.
James 3:5	Euen so the tongue is a litle member, and boasteth of great things: beholde, howe great a thing a litle fire kindleth.
James 3:6	And the tongue is fire, yea, a worlde of wickednesse: so is the tongue set among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature, and it is set on fire of hell.
James 3:7	For the whole nature of beasts, and of birds, and of creeping things, and things of the sea is tamed, and hath bene tamed of the nature of man.
James 3:8	But the tongue can no man tame. It is an vnruly euill, full of deadly poyson.
James 3:9	Therewith blesse we God euen the Father, and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God.
James 3:10	Out of one mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing: my brethren, these things ought not so to be.
James 3:11	Doeth a fountaine send forth at one place sweete water and bitter?
James 3:12	Can ye figge tree, my brethren, bring forth oliues, either a vine figges? so can no fountaine make both salt water and sweete.
James 3:13	Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? let him shew by good conuersation his workes in meekenesse of wisdome.
James 3:14	But if ye haue bitter enuying and strife in your hearts, reioyce not, neither be liars against the trueth.
James 3:15	This wisedome descendeth not from aboue, but is earthly, sensuall, and deuilish.
James 3:16	For where enuying and strife is, there is sedition, and all maner of euill workes.
James 3:17	But the wisedome that is from aboue, is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easie to be intreated, full of mercie and good fruites, without iudging, and without hipocrisie.
James 3:18	And the fruite of righteousnesse is sowen in peace, of them that make peace.
James 4:1	From whence are warres and contentions among you? are they not hence, euen of your pleasures, that fight in your members?
James 4:2	Ye lust, and haue not: ye enuie, and desire immoderately, and cannot obtaine: ye fight and warre, and get nothing, because ye aske not.
James 4:3	Ye aske, and receiue not, because ye aske amisse, that ye might lay the same out on your pleasures.
James 4:4	Ye adulterers and adulteresses, knowe ye not that the amitie of the world is the enimitie of God? Whosoeuer therefore will be a friend of the world, maketh himselfe the enemie of God.
James 4:5	Doe ye thinke that the Scripture sayeth in vaine, The spirit that dwelleth in vs, lusteth after enuie?
James 4:6	But the Scripture offereth more grace, and therefore sayth, God resisteth the proude, and giueth grace to the humble.
James 4:7	Submit your selues to God: resist the deuill, and he will flee from you.
James 4:8	Drawe neere to God, and he will drawe neere to you. Clense your handes, ye sinners, and purge your hearts, ye double minded.
James 4:9	Suffer afflictions, and sorrowe ye, and weepe: let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your ioy into heauinesse.
James 4:10	Cast downe your selues before the Lord, and he will lift you vp.
James 4:11	Speake not euill one of another, brethren. He that speaketh euill of his brother, or he that condemneth his brother, speaketh euill of ye Law, and condemneth the Lawe: and if thou condemnest the Lawe, thou art not an obseruer of the Lawe, but a iudge.
James 4:12	There is one Lawgiuer, which is able to saue, and to destroy. Who art thou that iudgest another man?
James 4:13	Goe to now ye that say, To day or to morowe we will goe into such a citie, and continue there a yeere, and bye and sell, and get gaine,
James 4:14	(And yet ye cannot tell what shalbe to morowe. For what is your life? It is euen a vapour that appeareth for a litle time, and afterward vanisheth away)
James 4:15	For that ye ought to say, If the Lord will, and, if we liue, we will doe this or that.
James 4:16	But now ye reioyce in your boastings: all such reioycing is euill.
James 4:17	Therefore, to him that knoweth how to doe well, and doeth it not, to him it is sinne.
James 5:1	Goe to nowe, ye rich men: weepe, and howle for your miseries that shall come vpon you.
James 5:2	Your riches are corrupt, and your garments are moth eaten.
James 5:3	Your gold and siluer is cankred, and the rust of them shalbe a witnesse against you, and shall eate your flesh, as it were fire. Ye haue heaped vp treasure for the last dayes.
James 5:4	Behold, the hire of ye labourers, which haue reaped your fieldes (which is of you kept backe by fraude) cryeth, and the cryes of them which haue reaped, are entred into the eares of the Lord of hostes.
James 5:5	Ye haue liued in pleasure on the earth, and in wantonnes. Ye haue nourished your heartes, as in a day of slaughter.
James 5:6	Ye haue condemned and haue killed the iust, and he hath not resisted you.
James 5:7	Be patient therefore, brethren, vnto the comming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman wayteth for the precious fruite of the earth, and hath long patience for it, vntill he receiue the former, and the latter rayne.
James 5:8	Be ye also patient therefore and settle your hearts: for ye comming of the Lord draweth neere.
James 5:9	Grudge not one against another, brethren, least ye be condemned: behold, the iudge standeth before the doore.
James 5:10	Take, my brethren, the Prophets for an ensample of suffering aduersitie, and of long patience, which haue spoken in the Name of the Lord.
James 5:11	Beholde, we count them blessed which endure. Ye haue heard of the patience of Iob, and haue knowen what ende the Lord made. For the Lord is very pitifull and mercifull.
James 5:12	But before all thinges, my brethren, sweare not, neither by heauen, nor by earth, nor by any other othe: but let your yea, be yea, and your nay, nay, lest ye fall into condemnation.
James 5:13	Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Is any merie? Let him sing.
James 5:14	Is any sicke among you? Let him call for the Elders of the Church, and let them pray for him, and anoynt him with oyle in the Name of the Lord.
James 5:15	And the prayer of faith shall saue the sicke, and the Lord shall raise him vp: and if he haue committed sinnes, they shalbe forgiuen him.
James 5:16	Acknowledge your faultes one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed: for the prayer of a righteous man auaileth much, if it be feruent.
James 5:17	Helias was a man subiect to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rayne, and it rayned not on the earth for three yeeres and sixe moneths.
James 5:18	And he prayed againe, and the heauen gaue rayne, and the earth brought forth her fruite.
James 5:19	Brethren, if any of you hath erred from the trueth, and some man hath conuerted him,
James 5:20	Let him know that he which hath conuerted the sinner from going astray out of his way, shall saue a soule from death, and shall hide a multitude of sinnes.

===== BOOK: Judges =====
Judges 1:1	After that Ioshua was dead, the children of Israel asked ye Lord, saying, Who shall goe vp for vs against the Canaanites, to fight first against them?
Judges 1:2	And the Lord said, Iudah shall goe vp: behold, I haue giuen the land into his hande.
Judges 1:3	And Iudah said vnto Simeon his brother, Come vp with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites: and I likewise will goe with thee into thy lot: so Simeon went with him.
Judges 1:4	Then Iudah went vp, and the Lord deliuered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hands, and they slew of them in Bezek ten thousand men.
Judges 1:5	And they founde Adoni-bezek in Bezek: and they fought against him, and slewe the Canaanites, and the Perizzites.
Judges 1:6	But Adoni-bezek fled, and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off the thumbes of his hands and of his feete.
Judges 1:7	And Adoni-bezek said, Seuentie Kings hauing the thumbes of their hands and of their feete cut off, gathered bread vnder my table: as I haue done, so God hath rewarded me. so they brought him to Ierusalem, and there he died.
Judges 1:8	(Nowe the children of Iudah had fought against Ierusalem, and had taken it and smitten it with the edge of the sworde, and had set the citie on fire.)
Judges 1:9	Afterwarde also the children of Iudah went downe to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the mountaine, and towarde the South, and in the lowe countrey.
Judges 1:10	And Iudah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron, which Hebron beforetime was called Kiriath-arba: and they slewe Sheshai, and Ahiman and Talmai.
Judges 1:11	And from thence hee went to the inhabitantes of Debir, and the name of Debir in olde time was Kiriath-sepher.
Judges 1:12	And Caleb saide, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it, euen to him wil I giue Achsah my daughter to wife.
Judges 1:13	And Othniel the sonne of Kenaz Calebs yonger brother tooke it, to whome hee gaue Achsah his daughter to wife.
Judges 1:14	And when shee came to him, shee mooued him to aske of her father a field, and shee lighted off her asse, and Caleb saide vnto her, What wilt thou?
Judges 1:15	And shee answered him, Giue mee a blessing: for thou hast giuen me a South countrey, giue me also springs of water: and Caleb gaue her the springs aboue and the springs beneath.
Judges 1:16	And the childre of Keni Moses father in law went vp out of the citie of the palme trees with the children of Iudah, into the wildernesse of Iudah, that lieth in the South of Arad, and went and dwelt among the people.
Judges 1:17	But Iudah went with Simeon his brother, and they slewe the Canaanites that inhabited Zephath, and vtterly destroied it, and called the name of the citie Hormah.
Judges 1:18	Also Iudah tooke Azzah with the coasts thereof, and Askelon with the coasts thereof, and Ekron with the coastes thereof.
Judges 1:19	And the Lord was with Iudah, and he possessed the mountaines: for he could not driue out the inhabitantes of the valleis, because they had charrets of yron.
Judges 1:20	And they gaue Hebron vnto Caleb, as Moses had saide, and hee expelled thence the three sonnes of Anak.
Judges 1:21	But the children of Beniamin did not cast out the Iebusites, that inhabited Ierusalem: therefore the Iebusites dwell with the children of Beniamin in Ierusalem vnto this day.
Judges 1:22	They also that were of the house of Ioseph, went vp to Beth-el, and the Lord was with them,
Judges 1:23	And the house of Ioseph caused to viewe Beth-el (and the name of the citie beforetime was Luz)
Judges 1:24	And the spies sawe a man come out of the citie, and they saide vnto him, Shewe vs, we praie thee, the way into the citie, and we will shewe thee mercie.
Judges 1:25	And when hee had shewed them the waie into the citie, they smote the citie with the edge of the sworde, but they let the man and all his housholde depart.
Judges 1:26	Then the man went into the lande of the Hittites, and built a citie, and called the name thereof Luz, which is the name thereof vnto this daie.
Judges 1:27	Neither did Manasseh destroie Bethshean with her townes, nor Taanach with her townes, nor the inhabitantes of Dor with her townes, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam with her townes, neither the inhabitants of Megiddo with her townes: but the Canaanites dwelled still in that lande.
Judges 1:28	Neuerthelesse when Israel was strong, they put the Canaanites to tribute, and expelled them not wholly.
Judges 1:29	Likewise Ephraim expelled not the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer, but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.
Judges 1:30	Neither did Zebulun expell the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol, but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became tributaries.
Judges 1:31	Neither did Asher cast out the inhabitants of Accho, nor the inhabitants of Zidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob,
Judges 1:32	But the Asherites dwelt among the Canaanites the inhabitantes of the lande: for they did not driue them out.
Judges 1:33	Neither did Naphtali driue out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, nor the inhabitants of Beth-anath, but dwelt among the Canaanites the inhabitants of the lande: neuerthelesse the inhabitantes of Beth-shemesh, and of Beth-anath became tributaries vnto them.
Judges 1:34	And the Amorites droue the children of Dan into the mountaine: so that they suffered them not to come downe to the valley.
Judges 1:35	And the Ammonites dwelt still in mount Heres in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim, and when the hand of Iosephs familie preuailed, they became tributaries:
Judges 1:36	And the coast of the Amorites was from Maaleh-akrabbim, euen from Selah and vpward.
Judges 2:1	And an Angel of the Lord came vp from Gilgal to Bochim, and sayd, I made you to go vp out of Egypt, and haue brought you vnto the land which I had sworne vnto your fathers, and sayd, I wil neuer breake my couenant with you.
Judges 2:2	Ye also shall make no couenant with the inhabitants of this land, but shall breake downe their altars: but ye haue not obeyed my voyce. Why haue ye done this?
Judges 2:3	Wherefore, I sayd also, I wil not cast them out before you, but they shalbe as thornes vnto your sides, and their gods shalbe your destruction.
Judges 2:4	And when the Angel of the Lord spake these wordes vnto all the children of Israel, the people lift vp their voyce, and wept.
Judges 2:5	Therefore they called the name of that place, Bochim, and offered sacrifices there vnto the Lord.
Judges 2:6	Now when Ioshua had sent the people away, the children of Israel went euery man into his inheritance, to possesse the land.
Judges 2:7	And the people had serued the Lord al the dayes of Ioshua, and all the dayes of the Elders that outliued Ioshua, which had seene all the great works of the Lord that he did for Israel.
Judges 2:8	But Ioshua the sonne of Nun the seruant of the Lord dyed, when he was an hundreth and ten yeeres olde:
Judges 2:9	And they buryed him in the coastes of his inheritance, in Timnath-heres in mount Ephraim, on the Northside of mount Gaash.
Judges 2:10	And so all that generation was gathered vnto their fathers, and another generation arose after them, which neither knewe the Lord, nor yet the works, which he had done for Israel.
Judges 2:11	Then the children of Israel did wickedly in the sight of the Lord, and serued Baalim,
Judges 2:12	And forsooke ye Lord God of their fathers, which brought them out of the lande of Egypt, and followed other gods, euen the gods of the people that were round about them, and bowed vnto them, and prouoked the Lord to anger.
Judges 2:13	So they forsooke the Lord, and serued Baal, and Ashtaroth.
Judges 2:14	And the wrath of the Lord was hote against Israel, and he deliuered them into the hands of spoylers, that spoyled them, and he sold them into the handes of their enemies rounde about them, so that they could no longer stande before their enemies.
Judges 2:15	Whithersoeuer they went out, the hand of the Lord was sore against them, as ye Lord had sayd, and as the Lord had sworne vnto them: so he punished them sore.
Judges 2:16	Notwithstanding, the Lord raysed vp Iudges, which deliuered them out of the hands of their oppressours.
Judges 2:17	But yet they would not obey their Iudges: for they went a whoring after other gods, and worshipped them, and turned quickly out of the way, wherein their fathers walked, obeying the commandements of the Lord: they did not so.
Judges 2:18	And when the Lord had raysed them vp Iudges, the Lord was with the Iudge, and deliuered them out of the hande of their enemies all the dayes of the Iudge (for the Lord had compassion on their gronings, because of them that oppressed them and tormented them)
Judges 2:19	Yet when the Iudge was dead, they returned, and did worse then their fathers, in following other gods to serue them and worshippe them: they ceased not from their owne inuentions, nor from their rebellious way.
Judges 2:20	Wherfore the wrath of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he sayd, Because this people hath transgressed my couenant, which I commaded their fathers, and hath not obeyed my voyce,
Judges 2:21	Therefore will I no more cast out before them any of the nations, which Ioshua left when he dyed,
Judges 2:22	That through them I may proue Israel, whether they wil keepe the way of the Lord, to walke therein, as their fathers kept it, or not.
Judges 2:23	So the Lord left those nations, and droue them not out immediatly, neither deliuered them into the hand of Ioshua.
Judges 3:1	These nowe are the nations which the Lord left, that he might proue Israel by them (euen as many of Israel as had not knowen all the warres of Canaan,
Judges 3:2	Only to make the generations of the children of Israel to know, and to teach them warre, which doutles their predecessors knew not)
Judges 3:3	Fiue princes of the Philistims, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hiuites that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal-hermon vntill one come to Hamath.
Judges 3:4	And these remayned to proue Israel by them, to wit, whether they would obey the commandements of the Lord, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
Judges 3:5	And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hiuites, and the Iebusites,
Judges 3:6	And they tooke their daughters to bee their wiues, and gaue their daughters to their sonnes, and serued their gods.
Judges 3:7	So the children of Israel did wickedly in the sight of the Lord, and forgate the Lord their God, and serued Baalim, and Asheroth.
Judges 3:8	Therefore the wrath of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he solde them into the hand of Chushan rishathaim King of Aram-naharaim, and the children of Israel serued Chushan rishathaim eyght yeeres.
Judges 3:9	And when the children of Israel cryed vnto the Lord, the Lord stirred vp a sauiour to ye children of Israel, and he saued them, euen Othniel the sonne of Kenaz, Calebs yonger brother.
Judges 3:10	And the spirite of the Lord came vpon him, and he iudged Israel, and went out to warre: and the Lord deliuered Chushan rishathaim king of Aram into his hand, and his hand preuailed against Chushan rishathaim.
Judges 3:11	So the lande had rest fourtie yeeres, and Othniel the sonne of Kenaz dyed.
Judges 3:12	Then the children of Israel againe committed wickednesse in the sight of the Lord: and the Lord strengthened Eglon King of Moab against Israel, because they had committed wickednesse before the Lord.
Judges 3:13	And he gathered vnto him the children of Ammon, and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and they possessed the citie of palme trees.
Judges 3:14	So the children of Israel serued Eglon king of Moab eighteene yeeres.
Judges 3:15	But when the children of Israel cried vnto the Lord, the Lord stirred them vp a sauiour, Ehud the sonne of Gera the sonne of Iemini, a man lame of his right hande: and the children of Israel sent a present by him vnto Eglon King of Moab.
Judges 3:16	And Ehud made him a dagger with two edges of a cubite length, and he did gird it vnder his rayment vpon his right thigh,
Judges 3:17	And he presented ye gift vnto Eglon King of Moab (and Eglon was a very fat man)
Judges 3:18	And when he had now presented the present, he sent away the people that bare ye present,
Judges 3:19	But he turned againe from the quarris, that were by Gilgal, and said, I haue a secret errand vnto thee, O King. Who said, Keepe silence: and all that stoode about him, went out from him.
Judges 3:20	Then Ehud came vnto him. (and he sate alone in a sommer parler, which he had) and Ehud said, I haue a message vnto thee from God. Then he arose out of his throne,
Judges 3:21	And Ehud put forth his left hand, and tooke the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his bellie,
Judges 3:22	So that the hafte went in after the blade, and the fatte closed about the blade, so that he could not drawe the dagger out of his bellie, but the dirt came out.
Judges 3:23	Then Ehud gate him out into the porch, and shut the doores of the parler vpon him, and locked them.
Judges 3:24	And when he was gone out, his seruantes came: who seeing that the doores of the parler were locked, they sayd, Surely he doeth his easement in his sommer chamber.
Judges 3:25	And they taryed till they were ashamed: and seeing he opened not the doores of the parler, they tooke the key, and opened them, and behold, their lord was fallen dead on the earth.
Judges 3:26	So Ehud escaped (while they taried) and was passed the quarris, and escaped vnto Seirah.
Judges 3:27	And when he came home, he blew a trumpet in mount Ephraim, and the children of Israel went downe with him from the mountaine, and he went before them.
Judges 3:28	Then said he vnto them, Follow me: for the Lord hath deliuered your enemies, euen Moab into your hand. So they went downe after him, and tooke the passages of Iorden towarde Moab, and suffred not a man to passe ouer.
Judges 3:29	And they slewe of the Moabites the same time about ten thousand men, all fed men, and all were warriours, and there escaped not a man.
Judges 3:30	So Moab was subdued that daye, vnder the hand of Israel: and the land had rest fourescore yeeres.
Judges 3:31	And after him was Shamgar the sonne of Anath, which slewe of the Philistims sixe hundreth men with an oxe goade, and he also deliuered Israel.
Judges 4:1	And the children of Israel began againe to do wickedly in the sight of the Lord when Ehud was dead.
Judges 4:2	And the Lord sold them into the hande of Iabin King of Canaan, that reigned in Hazor, whose chiefe Captaine was called Sisera, which dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles.
Judges 4:3	Then the children of Israel cryed vnto the Lord: (for he had nine hundreth charets of yron, and twentie yeeres he had vexed the children of Israel very sore)
Judges 4:4	And at that time Deborah a Prophetesse the wife of Lapidoth iudged Israel.
Judges 4:5	And this Deborah dwelt vnder a palme tree, betweene Ramah and Beth-el in mount Ephraim, and the children of Israel came vp to her for iudgement.
Judges 4:6	Then shee sent and called Barak the sonne of Abinoam out of Kadesh of Naphtali, and sayd vnto him, Hath not the Lord God of Israel commanded, saying, Goe, and drawe towarde mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousande men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?
Judges 4:7	And I wil drawe vnto thee to the riuer Kishon Sisera, the captaine of Iabins armie with his charets, and his multitude, and wil deliuer him into thine hand.
Judges 4:8	And Barak sayd vnto her, If thou wilt go with me, I will go: but if thou wilt not goe with me, I will not go.
Judges 4:9	Then shee answered, I will surely goe with thee, but this iourney that thou takest, shall not be for thine honour: for the Lord shall sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose and went with Barak to Kedesh.
Judges 4:10	And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh, and he went vp on his feete with ten thousand men, and Deborah went vp with him.
Judges 4:11	(Now Heber the Kenite, which was of the children of Hobab the father in lawe of Moses, was departed from the Kenites, and pitched his tent vntill the playne of Zaanaim, which is by Kedesh)
Judges 4:12	Then they shewed Sisera, that Barak the sonne of Abinoam was gone vp to mout Tabor.
Judges 4:13	And Sisera called for all his charets, euen nine hundreth charets of yron, and all the people that were with him from Harosheth of the Gentiles, vnto the riuer Kishon.
Judges 4:14	Then Deborah sayd vnto Barak, Vp: for this is the day that the Lord hath deliuered Sisera into thine hand. Is not the Lord gone out before thee? So Barak went downe from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.
Judges 4:15	And the Lord destroyed Sisera and all his charets, and al his hoste with the edge of the sword before Barak, so that Sisera lighted downe off his charet, and fled away on his feete.
Judges 4:16	But Barak pursued after the charets, and after the hoste vnto Harosheth of the Gentiles: and all the hoste of Sisera fel vpon the edge of the sworde: there was not a man left.
Judges 4:17	Howbeit Sisera fled away on his feete to the tent of Iael the wife of Heber the Kenite: (for peace was betweene Iabin the king of Hazor, and betweene the house of Heber the Kenite)
Judges 4:18	And Iael went out to meete Sisera, and sayd vnto him, Turne in, my lord, turne in to me: feare not. And when he had turned in vnto her into her tent, she couered him with a mantell.
Judges 4:19	And he said vnto her, Giue me, I pray thee, a litle water to drinke: for I am thirstie. And shee opened a bottel of milke, and gaue him drinke, and couered him.
Judges 4:20	Againe he sayde vnto her, Stande in the doore of the tent, and when any man doth come and enquire of thee, saying, Is any man there? thou shalt say, Nay.
Judges 4:21	Then Iael Hebers wife tooke a nayle of the tent, and tooke an hammer in her hande, and went softly vnto him, and smote the nayle into his temples, and fastened it into the grounde, (for he was fast a sleepe and weary) and so he dyed.
Judges 4:22	And behold, as Barak pursued after Sisera, Iael came out to meete him, and sayd vnto him, Come, and I wil shewe thee the man, whome thou seekest: and when he came into her tent, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the nayle in his temples.
Judges 4:23	So God brought downe Iabin the King of Canaan that day before the children of Israel.
Judges 4:24	And the hande of the children of Israel prospered, and preuailed against Iabin the King of Canaan, vntill they had destroyed Iabin King of Canaan.
Judges 5:1	Then sang Deborah, and Barak the sonne of Abinoam the same day, saying,
Judges 5:2	Praise ye the Lord for the auenging of Israel, and for the people that offred themselues willingly.
Judges 5:3	Heare, ye Kings, hearken ye princes: I, euen I will sing vnto the Lord: I will sing praise vnto the Lord God of Israel.
Judges 5:4	Lord, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou departedst out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heauens rained, the cloudes also dropped water.
Judges 5:5	The mountaines melted before the Lord, as did that Sinai before the Lord God of Israel.
Judges 5:6	In the dayes of Shamgar the sonne of Anath, in the dayes of Iael the hie wayes were vnoccupied, and the trauelers walked through by wayes.
Judges 5:7	The townes were not inhabited: they decayed, I say, in Israel, vntill I Deborah came vp, which rose vp a mother in Israel.
Judges 5:8	They chose new gods: then was warre in the gates. Was there a shielde or speare seene among fourtie thousand of Israel?
Judges 5:9	Mine heart is set on the gouernours of Israel, and on them that are willing among the people: praise ye the Lord.
Judges 5:10	Speake ye that ride on white asses, yee that dwel by Middin, and that walke by the way.
Judges 5:11	For the noyse of the archers appaised among the drawers of water: there shall they rehearse the righteousnesse of the Lord, his righteousnesse of his townes in Israel: then did the people of the Lord goe downe to the gates.
Judges 5:12	Vp Deborah, vp, arise, and sing a song: arise Barak, and leade thy captiuitie captiue, thou sonne of Abinoam.
Judges 5:13	For they that remaine, haue dominio ouer the mightie of the people: the Lord hath giuen me dominion ouer the strong.
Judges 5:14	Of Ephraim their roote arose against Amalek: and after thee, Beniamin shall fight against thy people, O Amalek: of Machir came rulers, and of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the writer.
Judges 5:15	And the Princes of Issachar were with Deborah, and Issachar, and also Barak: he was set on his feete in the valley: for the diuisions of Reuben were great thoughts of heart.
Judges 5:16	Why abodest thou among the sheepefolds, to heare the bleatings of the flockes? for the diuisions of Reuben were great thoughts of heart.
Judges 5:17	Gilead abode beyonde Iorden: and why doeth Dan remayne in shippes? Asher sate on the sea shoare, and taryed in his decayed places.
Judges 5:18	But the people of Zebulun and Naphtali haue ieopard their liues vnto the death in the hie places of the field.
Judges 5:19	The Kings came and fought: then fought the Kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo: they receiued no gaine of money.
Judges 5:20	They fought from heauen, euen the starres in their courses fought against Sisera.
Judges 5:21	The Riuer Kishon swepe them away, that ancient riuer the riuer Kishon. O my soule, thou hast marched valiantly.
Judges 5:22	Then were the horsehooues broken with the oft beating together of their mightie men.
Judges 5:23	Curse ye Meroz: (sayd the Angel of the Lord) curse the inhabitantes thereof, because they came not to helpe the Lord, to helpe the Lord against the mighty.
Judges 5:24	Iael the wife of Heber the Kenite shall be blessed aboue other women: blessed shall she be aboue women dwelling in tentes.
Judges 5:25	He asked water, and shee gaue him milke: she brought forth butter in a lordly dish.
Judges 5:26	She put her hand to the naile, and her right hand to the workemans hammer: with the hammer smote she Sisera: she smote off his head, after she had wounded, and pearsed his temples.
Judges 5:27	He bowed him downe at her feete, he fell downe, and lay still: at her feete hee bowed him downe, and fell: and when he had sunke downe, he lay there dead.
Judges 5:28	The mother of Sisera looked out at a windowe, and cryed thorowe the lattesse, Why is his charet so long a comming? why tary the wheeles of his charets?
Judges 5:29	Her wise ladies answered her, Yea. Shee answered her selfe with her owne wordes,
Judges 5:30	Haue they not gotten, and they deuide the spoyle? euery man hath a mayde or two. Sisera hath a praye of diuers coloured garmentes, a pray of sundry colours made of needle worke: of diuers colours of needle worke on both sides, for the chiefe of the spoyle.
Judges 5:31	So let all thine enemies perish, O Lord: but they that loue him, shall be as the Sunne when he riseth in his might, and the lande had rest fourtie yeres.
Judges 6:1	Afterwarde the children of Israel committed wickednesse in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord gaue them into the handes of Midian seuen yeres.
Judges 6:2	And the hand of Midian preuayled against Israel, and because of the Midianites the children of Israel made them dennes in the mountaines, and caues, and strong holdes.
Judges 6:3	When Israel had sowen, then came vp the Midianites, the Amalekites, and they of the East, and came vpon them,
Judges 6:4	And camped by them, and destroyed the fruite of the earth, euen til thou come vnto Azzah, and left no foode for Israel, neither sheepe, nor oxe, nor asse.
Judges 6:5	For they went vp, and their cattel, and came with their tentes as grashoppers in multitude: so that they and their camels were without number: and they came into the land to destroy it.
Judges 6:6	So was Israel exceedingly impouerished by the Midianites: therefore the children of Israel cryed vnto the Lord.
Judges 6:7	And when the children of Israel cryed vnto the Lord because of the Midianites,
Judges 6:8	The Lord sent vnto the children of Israel a Prophet, who sayd vuto them, Thus sayth the Lord God of Israel, I haue brought you vp from Egypt, and haue brought you out of the house of bondage,
Judges 6:9	And I haue deliuered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and haue cast them out before you, and giuen you their land.
Judges 6:10	And I sayde vnto you, I am the Lord your God: feare not the gods of the Amorites in whose lande you dwell: but ye haue not obeyed my voyce.
Judges 6:11	And the Angell of the Lord came, and sate vnder the oke which was in Ophrah, that perteined vnto Ioash the father of the Ezrites, and his sonne Gideon threshed wheate by the winepresse, to hide it from the Midianites.
Judges 6:12	Then the Angel of the Lord appeared vnto him, and said vnto him, The Lord is with thee, thou valiant man.
Judges 6:13	To whome Gideon answered, Ah my Lord, if the Lord be with vs, why then is all this come vpon vs? and where be all his miracles which our fathers tolde vs of, and sayd, Did not the Lord bring vs out of Egypt? but now the Lord hath forsaken vs, and deliuered vs into the hand of the Midianites.
Judges 6:14	And the Lord looked vpon him, and sayd, Goe in this thy might, and thou shalt saue Israel out of the handes of the Midianites: haue not I sent thee?
Judges 6:15	And he answered him, Ah my Lord, whereby shall I saue Israel? beholde, my father is poore in Manasseh, and I am the least in my fathers house.
Judges 6:16	Then the Lord sayd vnto him, I wil therefore be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites, as one man.
Judges 6:17	And he answered him, I pray thee, if I haue founde fauour in thy sight, then shewe me a signe, that thou talkest with me.
Judges 6:18	Depart not hence, I pray thee, vntil I come vnto thee, and bring mine offring, and lay it before thee. And he sayde, I will tary vntill thou come againe.
Judges 6:19	Then Gideon went in, and made ready a kidde, and vnleauened bread of an Ephah of floure, and put the flesh in a basket, and put the broth in a pot, and brought it out vnto him vnder the oke, and presented it.
Judges 6:20	And the Angell of God saide vnto him, Take the flesh and the vnleauened bread, and lay them vpon this stone, and powre out the broth: and he did so.
Judges 6:21	Then the Angell of the Lord put forth the ende of the staffe that he had in his hand, and touched the flesh and the vnleauened bread: and there arose vp fire out of the stone, and consumed the flesh and the vnleauened bread: so the Angel of the Lord departed out of his sight.
Judges 6:22	And when Gideon perceiued that it was an Angel of the Lord, Gideon then sayde, Alas, my Lord God: for because I haue seene an Angell of the Lord face to face, I shall die.
Judges 6:23	And the Lord said vnto him, Peace be vnto thee: feare not, thou shalt not die.
Judges 6:24	Then Gideon made an altar there vnto the Lord, and called it, Iehouah shalom: vnto this day it is in Ophrah, of the father of the Ezrites.
Judges 6:25	And the same night the Lord sayd vnto him, Take thy fathers yong bullocke, and an other bullocke of seuen yeeres olde, and destroy the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut downe the groue that is by it,
Judges 6:26	And build an altar vnto the Lord thy God vpon the top of this rocke, in a plaine place: and take the seconde bullocke, and offer a burnt offringe with the woode of the groue, which thou shalt cut downe.
Judges 6:27	Then Gideon tooke tenne men of his seruants, and did as ye Lord bade him: but because he feared to doe it by day for his fathers housholde, and the men of the citie, he did it by night.
Judges 6:28	And when the men of the citie arose early in the morning, beholde, the altar of Baal was broken, and the groue cut downe that was by it, and the seconde bullocke offred vpon the altar that was made.
Judges 6:29	Therefore they saide one to another, Who hath done this thing? and when they inquired and asked, they saide, Gideon the sonne of Ioash hath done this thing.
Judges 6:30	Then the men of the citie said vnto Ioash, Bring out thy sonne, that hee may dye: for he hath destroyed the altar of Baal, and hath also cut downe the groue that was by it.
Judges 6:31	And Ioash said vnto all that stood by him, Will ye pleade Baals cause? or will ye saue him? he that will contend for him, let him dye or the morning. If he be God, let him pleade for himselfe against him that hath cast downe his altar.
Judges 6:32	And in that day was Gideon called Ierubbaal, that is, Let Baal pleade for himselfe because he hath broken downe his altar.
Judges 6:33	Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and they of ye East, were gathered together, aud went and pitched in the valley of Izreel.
Judges 6:34	But the Spirit of the Lord came vpon Gideon, and he blew a trumpet, and Abiezer was ioyned with him.
Judges 6:35	And he sent messengers thorowout al Manasseh, which also was ioyned with him, and he sent messengers vnto Asher, and to Zebulun and to Naphtali, and they came vp to meete them.
Judges 6:36	Then Gideon said vnto God, If thou wilt saue Israel by mine hand, as thou hast sayd,
Judges 6:37	Beholde, I wil put a fleece of wooll in the threshing place: if the dewe come on the fleece onely, and it be drie vpon all the earth, then shall I be sure, that thou wilt saue Israel by mine hand, as thou hast said.
Judges 6:38	And so it was: for he rose vp earely on the morow, and thrust the fleece together, and wringed the dew out of the fleece, and filled a bowle of water.
Judges 6:39	Againe, Gideon sayde vnto God, Be not angry with me, that I may speake once more: let me prooue once againe, I pray thee, with the fleece: let it now be drie onely vpon the fleece, and let dewe be vpon all the ground.
Judges 6:40	And God did so that same night: for it was drie vpon the fleece onely, and there was dewe on all the ground.
Judges 7:1	Then Ierubbaal (who is Gideon) rose vp early, and all the people that were with him, and pitched beside the well of Harod, so that the hoste of the Midianites was on the Northside of them in the valley by the hill of Moreh.
Judges 7:2	And the Lord said vnto Gideon, The people that are with thee, are too many for me to giue the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel make their vaunt against me, and say, Mine hand hath saued mee.
Judges 7:3	Now therefore proclaime in the audience of the people, and say, Who so is timerous or fearefull, let him returne, and depart earely from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people which were at mount Gilead, two and twentie thousand: so ten thousand remayned.
Judges 7:4	And the Lord said vnto Gideon, The people are yet too many: bring them downe vnto the water, and I will try them for thee there: and of whome I say vnto thee, This man shall goe with thee, the same shall go with thee: and of whomsoeuer I say vnto thee, This man shall not goe with thee, the same shall not go.
Judges 7:5	So he brought downe the people vnto the water. And the Lord sayd vnto Gideon, As many as lap the water with their tongues, as a dog lappeth, them put by themselues, and euery one that shall bow downe his knees to drinke, put apart.
Judges 7:6	And the nomber of them that lapped by putting their handes to their mouthes, were three hundreth men: but all the remnant of the people kneeled downe vpon their knees to drinke water.
Judges 7:7	Then the Lord sayde vnto Gideon, By these three hundreth men that lapped, will I saue you, and deliuer the Midianites into thine hand: and let all the other people go euery man vnto his place.
Judges 7:8	So the people tooke vitailes with them, and their trumpets: and he sent all the rest of Israel, euery man vnto his tent, and reteined the three hundreth men: and the hoste of Midian was beneath him in a valley.
Judges 7:9	And the same night the Lord sayde vnto him, Arise, get thee downe vnto the hoste: for I haue deliuered it into thine hand.
Judges 7:10	But if thou feare to go downe, then go thou, and Phurah thy seruant downe to the hoste,
Judges 7:11	And thou shalt hearken what they say, and so shall thine handes be strong to go downe vnto the hoste. Then went he downe and Phurah his seruant vnto the outside of the souldiers that were in the hoste.
Judges 7:12	And the Midianites, and the Amalekites and all they of the East, lay in the valley like grashoppers in multitude, and their camels were without nomber, as the sande which is by the sea side for multitude.
Judges 7:13	And when Gideon was come, beholde, a man tolde a dreame vnto his neighbour, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dreame, and lo, a cake of barley bread tumbled from aboue into the hoste of Midian, and came vnto a tent, and smote it that it fell, and ouerturned it, that the tent fell downe.
Judges 7:14	And his fellow answered, and sayde, This is nothing els saue the sworde of Gideon the sonne of Ioash a man of Israel: for into his hande hath God deliuered Midian and all the hoste.
Judges 7:15	When Gideon heard the dreame tolde, and the interpretation of the same, he worshipped, and returned vnto the hoste of Israel, and said, Vp: for the Lord hath deliuered into your hande the hoste of Midian.
Judges 7:16	And hee deuided the three hundreth men into three bandes, and gaue euery man a trumpet in his hande with emptie pitchers, and lampes within the pitchers.
Judges 7:17	And he sayd vnto them, Looke on me, and do likewise, when I come to the side of the hoste: euen as I do, so do you.
Judges 7:18	When I blowe with a trumpet and all that are with me, blowe ye with trumpets also on euery side of the hoste, and say, For the Lord, and for Gideon.
Judges 7:19	So Gideon and the hundreth men that were with him, came vnto the outside of the hoste, in the beginning of the middle watche, and they raised vp the watchmen, and they blew with their trumpets, and brake the pitchers that were in their handes.
Judges 7:20	And the three companies blew with trumpets and brake the pitchers, and helde the lampes in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right. handes to blowe withall: and they cryed, The sword of the Lord and of Gideon.
Judges 7:21	And they stoode, euery man in his place round about the hoste: and all the hoste ranne, and cryed, and fled.
Judges 7:22	And the three hundreth blewe with trumpets, and the Lord set euery mans sworde vpon his neighbour, and vpon all the hoste: so the hoste fled to Beth-hashittah in Zererah, and to the border of Abel-meholah, vnto Tabbath.
Judges 7:23	Then the men of Israel being gathered together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, pursued after the Midianites.
Judges 7:24	And Gideon sent messengers vnto all mount Ephraim, saying, Come downe against the Midianites, and take before them the waters vnto Beth-barah, and Iorden. Then all the men of Ephraim gathered together and tooke the waters vnto Beth-barah, and Iorden.
Judges 7:25	And they tooke two princes of the Midianites, Oreb and Zeeb, and slew Oreb vpon the rocke Oreb, and slewe Zeeb at the winepresse of Zeeb, and pursued the Midianites, and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon beyonde Iorden.
Judges 8:1	Then the men of Ephraim sayde vnto him, Why hast thou serued vs thus that thou calledst vs not, when thou wentest to fight with the Midianites? and they chode with him sharply.
Judges 8:2	To whom he said, What haue I now done in comparison of you? is not the gleaning of grapes of Ephraim better, then the vintage of Abiezer?
Judges 8:3	God hath deliuered into your handes the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do in comparison of you? and when he had thus spoken, then their spirits abated toward him.
Judges 8:4	And Gideon came to Iorden to passe ouer, hee, and the three hundreth men that were with him, weary, yet pursuing them.
Judges 8:5	And he said vnto the men of Succoth, Giue, I pray you, morsels of bread vnto the people that follow me (for they be wearie) that I may follow after Zebah, and Zalmunna Kings of Midian.
Judges 8:6	And the princes of Succoth sayde, Are the handes of Zebah and Zalmunna nowe in thine hads, that we should giue bread vnto thine army?
Judges 8:7	Gideon then sayde, Therefore when the Lord hath deliuered Zebah and Zalmunna into mine hand, I will teare your flesh with thornes of the wildernes and with breers.
Judges 8:8	And he went vp thence to Penuel, and spake vnto them likewise, and the men of Penuel answered him, as the men of Succoth answered.
Judges 8:9	And he sayd also vnto the men of Penuel, When I come againe in peace, I will breake downe this towre.
Judges 8:10	Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their hostes with them, about fifteene thousande, all that were left of all the hostes of them of the East: for there was slaine an hundreth and twentie thousand men, that drew swordes.
Judges 8:11	And Gideon went through them that dwelt in Tabernacles on the East side of Nobah and Iogbehah, and smote the hoste: for the hoste was carelesse.
Judges 8:12	And when Zebah and Zalmunna fled, hee followed after them, and tooke the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the hoste.
Judges 8:13	So Gideon the sonne of Ioash returned from battel, the sunne being yet hie,
Judges 8:14	And tooke a seruant of the me of Succoth, and inquired of him: and he wrote to him the princes of Succoth and the Elders thereof, euen seuentie and seuen men.
Judges 8:15	And he came vnto the men of Succoth, and sayd, Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, by whome ye vpbrayded me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna already in thine hands, that we should giue bread vnto thy weary men?
Judges 8:16	Then he tooke the Elders of the citie, and thornes of the wildernes and breers, and did teare the men of Succoth with them.
Judges 8:17	Also he brake downe the towre of Penuel, and slew the men of the citie.
Judges 8:18	Then saide he vnto Zebah and Zalmunna, What maner of men were they, whom ye slew at Tabor? and they answered, As thou art, so were they: euery one was like the children of a King.
Judges 8:19	And he said, They were my brethren, euen my mothers children: as the Lord liueth, if ye had saued their liues, I would not slay you.
Judges 8:20	Then he sayde vnto Iether his first borne sonne, Vp, and slay them: but the boy drew not his sword: for he feared, because he was yet yong.
Judges 8:21	Then Zebah and Zalmunna sayd, Rise thou, and fall vpon vs: for as the man is, so is his strength. And Gideon arose and slew Zebah and Zalmunna, and tooke away the ornamentes, that were on their camels neckes.
Judges 8:22	Then the men of Israel sayd vnto Gideon, Reigne thou ouer vs, both thou, and thy sonne, and thy sonnes sonne: for thou hast deliuered vs out of the hand of Midian.
Judges 8:23	And Gideon sayde vnto them, I will not reigne ouer you, neither shall my childe reigne ouer you, but the Lord shall reigne ouer you.
Judges 8:24	Againe Gideon sayd vnto them, I would desire a request of you, that you would giue mee euery man the earings of his pray (for they had golden earings because they were Ismaelites)
Judges 8:25	And they answered, Wee will giue them. And they spred a garment, and did cast therein euery man the earings of his pray.
Judges 8:26	And the weight of the golden earings that he required, was a thousande and seuen hundreth shekels of golde, beside collers and iewels, and purple rayment that was on the kings of Midian, and beside the cheynes that were about their camels neckes.
Judges 8:27	And Gideon made an Ephod thereof, and put it in Ophrah his citie: and all Israel went a whoring there after it, which was the destruction of Gideon and his house.
Judges 8:28	Thus was Midian brought lowe before the children of Israel, so that they lift vp their heads no more: and the countrey was in quietnes fourtie yeeres in the dayes of Gideon.
Judges 8:29	Then Ierubbaal the sonne of Ioash went, and dwelt in his owne house.
Judges 8:30	And Gideon had seuentie sonnes begotten of his body: for he had many wiues.
Judges 8:31	And his concubine that was in Shechem, bare him a sonne also, whose name he called Abimelech.
Judges 8:32	So Gideon the sonne of Ioash dyed in a good age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Ioash his father in Ophrah, of the father of ye Ezrites.
Judges 8:33	But when Gideon was dead, the children of Israel turned away and went a whoring after Baalim, and made Baal-berith their God.
Judges 8:34	And the children of Israel remembred not the Lord their God, which had deliuered the out of the hands of all their enemies on euery side.
Judges 8:35	Neither shewed they mercy on the house of Ierubbaal, or Gideon, according to al the goodnesse which he had shewed vnto Israel.
Judges 9:1	Then Abimelech the sonne of Ierubbaal went to Shechem vnto his mothers brethren, and communed with them, and with all the familie, and house of his mothers father, saying,
Judges 9:2	Say, I pray you, in the audience of all the men of Shechem, Whether is better for you, that all the sonnes of Ierubbaal, which are seuentie persons, reigne ouer you, either that one reigne ouer you? Remember also, that I am your bone, and your flesh.
Judges 9:3	Then his mothers brethren spake of him in the audience of all the men of Shechem, all these wordes: and their hearts were moued to follow Abimelech: for sayd they, He is our brother.
Judges 9:4	And they gaue him seuentie pieces of siluer out of the house of Baal-berith, wherewith Abimelech hired vayne and light fellowes which followed him.
Judges 9:5	And he went vnto his fathers house at Ophrah, and slew his brethren, the sonnes of Ierubbaal, about seuentie persons vpon one stone: yet Iotham the yongest sonne of Ierubbaal was left: for he hid himselfe.
Judges 9:6	And all the men of Shechem gathered together with all the house of Millo, and came and made Abimelech King in the playne, where the stone was erected in Shechem.
Judges 9:7	And when they told it to Iotham, he went and stoode in the top of mount Gerizim, and lift vp his voyce, and cryed, and sayd vnto them, Hearken vnto mee, you men of Shechem, that God may hearken vnto you.
Judges 9:8	The trees went foorth to anoynt a King ouer them, and sayde vnto the oliue tree, Reigne thou ouer vs.
Judges 9:9	But the oliue tree said vnto them, Should I leaue my fatnes, wherewith by me they honour God and man, and go to aduance me aboue ye trees?
Judges 9:10	Then the trees sayde to the fig tree, Come thou, and be King ouer vs.
Judges 9:11	But the fig tree answered them, Should I forsake my sweetenesse, and my good fruite, and goe to aduance me aboue the trees?
Judges 9:12	Then sayd the trees vnto the Vine, Come thou, and be king ouer vs.
Judges 9:13	But the Vine sayde vnto them, Should I leaue my wine, whereby I cheare God and man, and goe to aduance me aboue the trees?
Judges 9:14	Then said all the trees vnto the bramble, Come thou, and reigne ouer vs.
Judges 9:15	And the bramble said vnto the trees, If ye will in deede anoynt me King ouer you, come, and put your trust vnder my shadowe: and if not, the fire shall come out of the bramble, and consume the Cedars of Lebanon.
Judges 9:16	Now therefore, if ye doe truely and vncorruptly to make Abimelech King, and if ye haue delt well with Ierubbaal and with his house, and haue done vnto him according to the deseruing of his handes,
Judges 9:17	(For my father fought for you, and aduentured his life, and deliuered you out of the handes of Midian.
Judges 9:18	And yee are risen vp against my fathers house this day, and haue slayne his children, about seuentie persons vpon one stone, and haue made Abimelech the sonne of his mayde seruant, King ouer the men of Shechem, because hee is your brother)
Judges 9:19	If ye then haue delt truely and purely with Ierubbaal, and with his house this day, then reioyce with you.
Judges 9:20	But if not, let a fire come out from Abimelech, and consume the men of Shechem and the house of Millo: also let a fire come foorth from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and consume Abimelech.
Judges 9:21	And Iotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there for feare of Abimelech his brother.
Judges 9:22	So Abimelech reigned three yeere ouer Israel.
Judges 9:23	But God sent an euil spirit betweene Abimelech, and the men of Shechem: and the men of Shechem brake their promise to Abimelech,
Judges 9:24	That the crueltie toward the seuentie sonnes of Ierubbaal and their blood might come and be laide vpon Abimelech their brother, which had slayne them, and vpon the men of Shechem, which had ayded him to kill his brethren.
Judges 9:25	So the men of Shechem set men in wayte for him in the toppes of the mountaines: who robbed all that passed that way by them: and it was tolde Abimelech.
Judges 9:26	Then Gaal the sonne of Ebed came with his brethren, and they went to Shechem: and the men of Shechem put their confidence in him.
Judges 9:27	Therefore they went out into the field, and gathered in their grapes and troade them, and made merie, and went into the house of their gods, and did eate and drinke, and cursed Abimelech.
Judges 9:28	Then Gaal the sonne of Ebed sayde, Who is Abimelech? and who is Shechem, that wee should serue him? Is he not the sonne of Ierubbaal? and Zebul is his officer? Serue rather the men of Hamor the father of Shechem: for why should we serue him?
Judges 9:29	Now would God this people were vnder mine hand: then would I put away Abimelech. And he said to Abimelech, Increase thine army, and come out.
Judges 9:30	And when Zebul the ruler of the citie heard the wordes of Gaal the sonne of Ebed, his wrath was kindled.
Judges 9:31	Therefore he sent messengers vnto Abimelech priuily, saying, Beholde, Gaal the sonne of Ebed and his brethren be come to Shechem, and beholde, they fortifie the citie against thee.
Judges 9:32	Now therefore arise by night, thou and the people that is with thee, and lye in wayte in the fielde.
Judges 9:33	And rise early in the morning as soone as the sunne is vp, and assault the citie: and when he and the people that is with him, shall come out against thee, doe to him what thou canst.
Judges 9:34	So Abimelech rose vp, and all the people that were with him by night: and they lay in wayte against Shechem in foure bandes.
Judges 9:35	Then Gaal the sonne of Ebed went out and stood in the entring of the gate of the citie: and Abimelech rose vp, and the folke that were with him, from lying in waite.
Judges 9:36	And when Gaal sawe the people, he said to Zebul, Beholde, there come people downe from the tops of the mountaines: and Zebul said vnto him, The shadowe of the mountaines seeme men vnto thee.
Judges 9:37	And Gaal spake againe, and said, See, there come folke downe by the middle of the land, and another bande commeth by the way of the plaine of Meonenim.
Judges 9:38	Then sayd Zebul vnto him, Where is now thy mouth, that said, Who is Abimelech, that we should serue him? Is not this the people that thou hast despised? Go out now, I pray thee, and fight with them.
Judges 9:39	And Gaal went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.
Judges 9:40	But Abimelech pursued him, and he fledde before him, and many were ouerthrowen and wounded, euen vnto the entring of the gate.
Judges 9:41	And Abimelech dwelt at Arumah: and Zebul thrust out Gaal and his brethren that they should not dwell in Shechem.
Judges 9:42	And on the morowe, the people went out into the fielde: which was tolde Abimelech.
Judges 9:43	And he tooke the people, and deuided them into three bandes, and layde wayte in the fieldes, and looked, and beholde, the people were come out of the citie, and he rose vp against them, and smote them.
Judges 9:44	And Abimelech, and the bandes that were with him, russhed forwarde, and stoode in the entring of the gate of the citie: and the two other bandes ran vpon all the people that were in the fielde and slewe them.
Judges 9:45	And when Abimelech had fought against the citie all that day, he tooke the citie, and slewe the people that was therein, and destroyed the citie and sowed salt in it.
Judges 9:46	And when all the men of the towre of Shechem heard it, they entred into an holde of the house of the god Berith.
Judges 9:47	And it was tolde Abimelech, that all the men of the towre of Shechem were gathered together.
Judges 9:48	And Abimelech gate him vp to mounte Zalmon, hee and all the people that were with him: and Abimelech tooke axes with him, and cut downe boughes of trees, and tooke them, and bare them on his shoulder, and sayde vnto the folke that were with him, What ye haue seene me doe, make haste, and doe like me.
Judges 9:49	Then all the people also cut downe euery man his bough, and followed Abimelech, and put them to the holde, and set the holde on fire with them: so all the men of the towre of Shechem dyed also, about a thousand men and women.
Judges 9:50	Then went Abimelech to Tebez, and besieged Tebez, and tooke it.
Judges 9:51	But there was a strong towre within the citie, and thither fledde all the men and women, and all the chiefe of the citie, and shut it to them, and went vp to the toppe of the towre.
Judges 9:52	And Abimelech came vnto the towre and fought against it, and went hard vnto the doore of the towre to set it on fire.
Judges 9:53	But a certaine woman cast a piece of a milstone vpon Abimelechs head, and brake his braine pan.
Judges 9:54	Then Abimelech called hastily his page that bare his harneis, and sayde vnto him, Drawe thy sworde and slay me, that men say not of me, A woman slewe him. And his page thrust him thorowe, and he dyed.
Judges 9:55	And when the men of Israel sawe that Abimelech was dead, they departed euery man vnto his owne place.
Judges 9:56	Thus God rendred the wickednes of Abimelech, which he did vnto his father, in slaying his seuentie brethren.
Judges 9:57	Also all the wickednes of the men of Shechem did God bring vpon their heads. So vpon them came the curse of Iotham the sonne of Ierubbaal.
Judges 10:1	After Abimelech there arose to defend Israel, Tola, the sonne of Puah, the sone of Dodo, a man of Issachar, which dwelt in Shamir in mount Ephraim.
Judges 10:2	And he iudged Israel three and twentie yeere and dyed, and was buried in Shamir.
Judges 10:3	And after him arose Iair a Gileadite, and iudged Israel two and twenty yeere.
Judges 10:4	And he had thirtie sonnes that rode on thirtie assecolts, and they had thirtie cities, which are called Hauoth-Iair vnto this day, and are in the land of Gilead.
Judges 10:5	And Iair dyed, and was buried in Kamon.
Judges 10:6	And the children of Israel wrought wickednesse againe in the sight of the Lord, and serued Baalim and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Aram, and the gods of Zidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistims, and forsooke the Lord and serued not him.
Judges 10:7	Therefore the wrath of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he solde them into the hands of the Philistims, and into the handes of the children of Ammon:
Judges 10:8	Who from that yere vexed and oppressed the children of Israel eighteene yeres, euen all the children of Israel that were beyond Iorden, in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
Judges 10:9	Moreouer, the children of Ammon went ouer Iorden to fight against Iudah, and against Beniamin, and against the house of Ephraim: so that Israel was sore tormented.
Judges 10:10	Then the children of Israel cryed vnto the Lord, saying, We haue sinned against thee, euen because we haue forsaken our owne God, and haue serued Baalim.
Judges 10:11	And the Lord sayd vnto the children of Israel, Did not I deliuer you from the Egyptians and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon and from the Philistims?
Judges 10:12	The Zidonians also, and the Amalekites, and the Maonites did oppresse you, and ye cryed to me and I saued you out of their hands.
Judges 10:13	Yet ye haue forsaken me, and serued other gods: wherefore I will deliuer you no more.
Judges 10:14	Goe, and cry vnto the gods which ye haue chosen: let them saue you in the time of your tribulation.
Judges 10:15	And the children of Israel sayde vnto the Lord, We haue sinned: doe thou vnto vs whatsoeuer please thee: onely we pray thee to deliuer vs this day.
Judges 10:16	Then they put away the strange gods from among them and serued the Lord: and his soule was grieued for the miserie of Israel.
Judges 10:17	Then the children of Ammon gathered themselues together, and pitched in Gilead: and the children of Israel assembled themselues, and pitched in Mizpeh.
Judges 10:18	And the people and princes of Gilead said one to another, Whosoeuer will beginne the battell against the children of Ammon, the same shall be head ouer all the inhabitants of Gilead.
Judges 11:1	Then Gilead begate Iphtah, and Iphtah the Gileadite was a valiant man, but the sonne of an harlot.
Judges 11:2	And Gileads wife bare him sonnes, and when the womans children were come to age, they thrust out Iphtah, and sayd vnto him, Thou shalt not inherite in our fathers house: for thou art the sonne of a strange woman.
Judges 11:3	Then Iphtah fledde from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob: and there gathered idle fellowes to Iphtah, and went out with him.
Judges 11:4	And in processe of time the children of Ammon made warre with Israel.
Judges 11:5	And when the children of Ammon fought with Israel, the Elders of Gilead went to fet Iphtah out of the land of Tob.
Judges 11:6	And they saide vnto Iphtah, Come and be our captaine, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.
Judges 11:7	Iphtah then answered the Elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me, and expell me out of my fathers house? how then come you vnto me now in time of your tribulation?
Judges 11:8	Then the Elders of Gilead saide vnto Iphtah, Therefore we turne againe to thee now, that thou mayest goe with vs, and fight against the children of Ammon, and bee our head ouer all the inhabitants of Gilead.
Judges 11:9	And Iphtah said vnto the Elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home againe to fight against the children of Ammon, if the Lord giue them before me, shall I be your head?
Judges 11:10	And the Elders of Gilead saide to Iphtah, The Lord be witnesse betweene vs, if we doe not according to thy wordes.
Judges 11:11	Then Iphtah went with the Elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and captaine ouer them: and Iphtah rehearsed all his wordes before the Lord in Mizpeh.
Judges 11:12	Then Iphtah sent messengers vnto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to doe with me, that thou art come against me, to fight in my lande?
Judges 11:13	And the King of the children of Ammon answered vnto the messengers of Iphtah, Because Israel tooke my lande, when they came vp from Egypt, from Arnon vnto Iabbok, and vnto Iorden: now therefore restore those lands quietly.
Judges 11:14	Yet Iphtah sent messengers againe vnto the King of the children of Ammon,
Judges 11:15	And said vnto him, Thus saith Iphtah, Israel tooke not the lande of Moab, nor the lande of the children of Ammon.
Judges 11:16	But when Israel came vp from Egypt, and walked through the wildernesse vnto the redde Sea, then they came to Kadesh.
Judges 11:17	And Israel sent messengers vnto the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, goe thorowe thy lande: but the King of Edom woulde not consent: and also they sent vnto the King of Moab, but he would not: therefore Israel abode in Kadesh.
Judges 11:18	Then they went through the wildernesse, and compassed the lande of Edom, and the lande of Moab, and came by the Eastside of the lande of Moab, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, and came not within the coast of Moab: for Arnon was the border of Moab.
Judges 11:19	Also Israel sent messengers vnto Sihon, King of the Amorites, the King of Heshbon, and Israel said vnto him, Let vs passe, we pray thee, by thy lande vnto our place.
Judges 11:20	But Sihon consented not to Israel, that he shoulde goe through his coast: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and pitched in Iahaz, and fought with Israel.
Judges 11:21	And the Lord God of Israel gaue Sihon and all his folke into the handes of Israel, and they smote them: so Israel possessed all the lande of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that countrey:
Judges 11:22	And they possessed all the coast of the Amorites, from Arnon vnto Iabbok, and from the wildernesse euen vnto Iorden.
Judges 11:23	Nowe therefore the Lord God of Israel hath cast out the Amorites before his people Israel, and shouldest thou possesse it?
Judges 11:24	Wouldest not thou possesse that which Chemosh thy god giueth thee to possesse? So whomesoeuer the Lord our God driueth out before vs, them will we possesse.
Judges 11:25	And art thou nowe farre better then Balak the sonne of Zippor King of Moab? did he not striue with Israel and fight against them,
Judges 11:26	When Israel dwelt in Heshbon and in her townes, and in Aroer and in her townes, and in all the cities that are by the coastes of Arnon, three hundreth yeeres? why did ye not then recouer them in that space?
Judges 11:27	Wherefore, I haue not offended thee: but thou doest me wrong to warre against me. The Lord the Iudge be iudge this day betweene the children of Israel, and the children of Ammon.
Judges 11:28	Howbeit the King of the children of Ammon hearkened not vnto the wordes of Iphtah, which he had sent him.
Judges 11:29	Then the Spirite of the Lord came vpon Iphtah, and he passed ouer to Gilead and to Manasseh, and came to Mizpeh in Gilead, and from Mizpeh in Gilead he went vnto the children of Ammon.
Judges 11:30	And Iphtah vowed a vowe vnto the Lord, and said, If thou shalt deliuer the children of Ammon into mine handes,
Judges 11:31	Then that thing that commeth out of the doores of mine house to meete me, when I come home in peace from the children of Ammon, shall be the Lordes, and I will offer it for a burnt offering.
Judges 11:32	And so Iphtah went vnto the children of Ammon to fight against them, and the Lord deliuered them into his handes.
Judges 11:33	And he smote them from Aroer euen till thou come to Minnith, twentie cities, and so foorth to Abel of the vineyardes, with an exceeding great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were humbled before the children of Israel.
Judges 11:34	Nowe when Iphtah came to Mizpeh vnto his house, beholde, his daughter came out to meete him with timbrels and daunces, which was his onely childe: he had none other sonne, nor daughter.
Judges 11:35	And when hee sawe her, hee rent his clothes, and saide, Alas my daughter, thou hast brought me lowe, and art of them that trouble me: for I haue opened my mouth vnto the Lord, and can not goe backe.
Judges 11:36	And she said vnto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth vnto the Lord, doe with me as thou hast promised, seeing that the Lord hath auenged thee of thine enemies the children of Ammon.
Judges 11:37	Also she saide vnto her father, Doe thus much for me: suffer me two moneths, that I may goe to the mountaines, and bewaile my virginitie, I and my fellowes.
Judges 11:38	And he sayde, Goe: and he sent her away two moneths: so she went with her companions, and lamented her virginitie vpon the moutaines.
Judges 11:39	And after the ende of two moneths, she turned againe vnto her father, who did with her according to his vowe which he had vowed, and she had knowen no man. and it was a custome in Israel:
Judges 11:40	The daughters of Israel went yere by yere to lament the daughter of Iphtah the Gileadite, foure dayes in a yeere.
Judges 12:1	And the me of Ephraim gathered themselues together, and went Northwarde, and saide vnto Iphtah, Wherefore wentest thou to fight against the children of Ammon, and diddest not call vs to goe with thee? we will therefore burne thine house vpon thee with fire.
Judges 12:2	And Iphtah said vnto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon, and when I called you, ye deliuered me not out of their handes.
Judges 12:3	So when I sawe that ye deliuered me not, I put my life in mine hands, and went vpon the children of Ammon: so the Lord deliuered them into mine handes. Wherefore then are ye come vpon me nowe to fight against me?
Judges 12:4	Then Iphtah gathered all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye Gileadites are runnagates of Ephraim among the Ephraimites, and among the Manassites.
Judges 12:5	Also the Gileadites tooke the passages of Iorden before the Ephraimites, and when the Ephraimites that were escaped, saide, Let me passe, then the men of Gilead said vnto him, Art thou an Ephraimite? If he said, Nay,
Judges 12:6	Then said they vnto him, Say nowe Shibboleth: and he said, Sibboleth: for he could not so pronounce: then they tooke him, and slewe him at the passages of Iorden: and there fel at that time of the Ephraimites two and fourtie thousand.
Judges 12:7	And Iphtah iudged Israel sixe yeere: then dyed Iphtah the Gileadite, and was buryed in one of the cities of Gilead.
Judges 12:8	After him Ibzan of Beth-lehem iudged Israel,
Judges 12:9	Who had thirtie sonnes and thirtie daughters, which he sent out, and tooke in thirtie daughters from abroade for his sonnes. and he iudged Israel seuen yeere.
Judges 12:10	Then Ibzan died, and was buryed at Bethlehem.
Judges 12:11	And after him iudged Israel Elon, a Zebulonite, and he iudged Israel tenne yeere.
Judges 12:12	Then Elon the Zebulonite dyed, and was buryed in Aijalon in the countrey of Zebulun.
Judges 12:13	And after him Abdon the sonne of Hillel the Pirathonite iudged Israel.
Judges 12:14	And he had fourty sonnes and thirtie nephewes that rode on seuentie assecoltes: and he iudged Israel eight yeeres.
Judges 12:15	Then dyed Abdon the sonne of Hillel the Pirathonite, and was buryed in Pirathon, in ye lande of Ephraim, in the Mount of the Amalekites.
Judges 13:1	Bvt the children of Israel continued to commit wickednesse in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord deliuerd them into the handes of the Philistims fourtie yeere.
Judges 13:2	Then there was a man in Zorah of the familie of the Danites, named Manoah, whose wife was baren, and bare not.
Judges 13:3	And the Angel of the Lord appeared vnto the woman, and said vnto her, Beholde nowe, thou art baren, and bearest not: but thou shalt conceiue, and beare a sonne.
Judges 13:4	And nowe therefore beware that thou drinke no wine, nor strong drinke, neither eate any vncleane thing.
Judges 13:5	For loe, thou shalt conceiue and beare a sonne, and no rasor shall come on his head: for the childe shall be a Nazarite vnto God from his birth: and he shall begin to saue Israel out of the handes of the Philistims.
Judges 13:6	Then the wife came, and tolde her husband, saying, A man of God came vnto me, and the facion of him was like the facion of the Angel of God exceeding feareful, but I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name,
Judges 13:7	But he saide vnto me, Beholde, thou shalt conceiue, and beare a sonne, and nowe thou shalt drinke no wine, nor strong drinke, neither eate any vncleane thing: for the childe shalbe a Nazarite to God from his birth to the day of his death.
Judges 13:8	Then Manoah prayed to the Lord and saide, I pray thee, my Lord, Let the man of God, whome thou sentest, come againe nowe vnto vs, and teach vs what we shall doe vnto the child when he is borne.
Judges 13:9	And God heard the voyce of Manoah, and the Angel of God came againe vnto the wife, as she sate in the fielde, but Manoah her husband was not with her.
Judges 13:10	And the wife made haste and ranne, and shewed her husband and sayde vnto him, Behold, the man hath appeared vnto me, that came vnto me to day.
Judges 13:11	And Manoah arose and went after his wife, and came to the man, and saide vnto him, Art thou the man that spakest vnto the woman? and he said, Yea.
Judges 13:12	Then Manoah sayde, Nowe let thy saying come to passe: but howe shall we order the childe and doe vnto him?
Judges 13:13	And the Angell of the Lord saide vnto Manoah, The woman must beware of all that I said vnto her.
Judges 13:14	She may eate of nothing that commeth of the vinetree: she shall not drinke wine nor strong drinke, nor eate any vncleane thing: let her obserue all that I haue commanded her.
Judges 13:15	Manoah then said vnto the Angell of the Lord, I pray thee, let vs reteine thee, vntill we haue made readie a kid for thee.
Judges 13:16	And the Angel of the Lord said vnto Manoah, Though thou make me abide, I will not eate of thy bread, and if thou wilt make a burnt offring, offer it vnto the Lord: for Manoah knewe not that it was an Angel of the Lord.
Judges 13:17	Againe Manoah said vnto the Angell of the Lord, What is thy name, that when thy saying is come to passe, we may honour thee?
Judges 13:18	And the Angell of the Lord saide vnto him, Why askest thou thus after my name, which is secret?
Judges 13:19	Then Manoah tooke a kid with a meate offering, and offered it vpon a stone vnto the Lord: and the Angell did wonderously, whiles Manoah and his wife looked on.
Judges 13:20	For when the flame came vp toward heauen from the altar, the Angel of the Lord ascended vp in the flame of the altar, and Manoah and his wife behelde it, and fell on their faces vnto the grounde.
Judges 13:21	(So the Angel of the Lord did no more appeare vnto Manoah and his wife.) Then Manoah knewe that it was an Angel of the Lord.
Judges 13:22	And Manoah said vnto his wife, We shall surely dye, because we haue seene God.
Judges 13:23	But his wife saide vnto him, If the Lord woulde kill vs, he woulde not haue receiued a burnt offring, and a meate offring of our hands, neither would he haue shewed vs all these things, nor would now haue tolde vs any such.
Judges 13:24	And the wife bare a sonne, and called his name Samson: and the childe grewe, and the Lord blessed him.
Judges 13:25	And the Spirite of the Lord beganne to strengthen him in the host of Dan, betweene Zorah, and Eshtaol.
Judges 14:1	Nowe Samson went downe to Timnath, and saw a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistims,
Judges 14:2	And he came vp and told his father and his mother and saide, I haue seene a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistims: now therfore giue me her to wife.
Judges 14:3	Then his father and his mother sayde vnto him, Is there neuer a wife among the daughters of thy brethren, and among all my people, that thou must go to take a wife of the vncircumcised Philistims? And Samson sayd vnto his father, Giue mee her, for she pleaseth me well.
Judges 14:4	But his father and his mother knewe not that it came of the Lord, that he should seeke an occasion against the Philistims: for at that time the Philistims reigned ouer Israel.
Judges 14:5	Then went Samson and his father and his mother downe to Timnath, and came to ye vineyardes at Timnath: and beholde, a young Lyon roared vpon him.
Judges 14:6	And the Spirit of the Lord came vpon him, and he tare him, as one should haue rent a kid, and had nothing in his hand, neither told he his father nor his mother what he had done.
Judges 14:7	And he went down, and talked with the woman which was beautifull in the eyes of Samson.
Judges 14:8	And within a fewe dayes, when he returned to receiue her, he went aside to see the karkeis of the Lion: and behold, there was a swarme of bees, and hony in the body of the Lyon.
Judges 14:9	And he tooke therof in his handes, and went eating, and came to his father and to his mother, and gaue vnto them, and they did eate: but hee told not them, that he had taken the hony out of the body of the lyon.
Judges 14:10	So his father went down vnto the woman, and Samson made there a feast: for so vsed the yong men to doe.
Judges 14:11	And when they sawe him, they brought thirtie companions to be with him.
Judges 14:12	Then Samson sayd vnto them, I will nowe put forth a riddle vnto you: and if you can declare it me within seuen dayes of the feast, and finde it out, I will giue you thirty sheetes, and thirtie change of garments.
Judges 14:13	But if you cannot declare it mee, then shall yee giue mee thirty sheetes and thirtie change of garments. And they answered him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may heare it.
Judges 14:14	And he sayd vnto them, Out of the eater came meate, and out of the strong came sweetenesse: and they could not in three dayes expound the riddle.
Judges 14:15	And when the seuenth day was come, they said vnto Samsons wife, Entise thine husband, that he may declare vs the riddle, lest wee burne thee and thy fathers house with fire. Haue ye called vs, to possesse vs? is it not so?
Judges 14:16	And Samsons wife wept before him, and said, Surely thou hatest mee and louest mee not: for thou hast put forth a riddle vnto the children of my people, and hast not told it mee. And hee sayd vnto her, Beholde, I haue not told it my father, nor my mother, and shall I tell it thee?
Judges 14:17	Then Samsons wife wept before him seuen dayes, while their feast lasted: and when the seuenth day came he tolde her, because she was importunate vpon him: so she told the riddle to the children of her people.
Judges 14:18	And the men of ye citie sayde vnto him the seuenth day before the Sunne went downe, What is sweeter then honie? and what is stronger then a lyon? Then sayd hee vnto them, If yee had not plowed with my heiffer, yee had not found out my riddle.
Judges 14:19	And the Spirite of the Lord came vpon him, and he went downe to Ashkelon, and slew thirtie men of them and spoyled them, and gaue chaunge of garments vnto them, which expounded the riddle: and his wrath was kindled, and he went vp to his fathers house.
Judges 14:20	Then Samsons wife was giuen to his companion, whom he had vsed as his friend.
Judges 15:1	But within a while after, in the time of wheate haruest, Samson visited his wife with a kid, saying, I wil go in to my wife into the chamber: but her father would not suffer him to goe in.
Judges 15:2	And her father sayde, I thought that thou hadst hated her: therefore gaue I her to thy companion. Is not her yonger sister fayrer then shee? take her, I pray thee, in stead of the other.
Judges 15:3	Then Samson saide vnto them, Nowe am I more blamelesse then the Philistims: therefore will I doe them displeasure.
Judges 15:4	And Samson went out, and tooke three hundreth foxes, and tooke firebrands, and turned them taile to taile, and put a firebrand in ye middes betweene two tailes.
Judges 15:5	And when he had set the brandes on fire, he sent them out into the standing corne of the Philistims, and burnt vp both the rickes and the standing corne with the vineyardes and oliues.
Judges 15:6	Then the Philistims sayde, Who hath done this? And they answered, Samson the sonne in law of the Timnite, because hee had taken his wife, and giuen her to his companion. Then the Philistims came vp and burnt her and her father with fire.
Judges 15:7	And Samson saide vnto them, Though yee haue done this, yet wil I be auenged of you, and then I wil cease.
Judges 15:8	So hee smote them hippe and thigh with a mightie plague: then hee went and dwelt in the top of the rocke Etam.
Judges 15:9	Then the Philistims came vp, and pitched in Iudah, and were spred abroad in Lehi.
Judges 15:10	And the men of Iudah sayde, Why are yee come vp vnto vs? And they answered, To binde Samson are we come vp, and to do to him as hee hath done to vs.
Judges 15:11	Then three thousande men of Iudah went to the top of the rocke Etam, and sayde to Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistims are rulers ouer vs? Wherefore then hast thou done thus vnto vs? And he answered them, As they did vnto me, so haue I done vnto them.
Judges 15:12	Againe they sayd vnto him, Wee are come to binde thee, and to deliuer thee into the hande of the Philistims. And Samson sayde vnto them, Sweare vnto me, that yee will not fall vpon me your selues.
Judges 15:13	And they answered him, saying, No, but we will bynde thee and deliuer thee vnto their hande, but we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two newe cordes, and brought him from the rocke.
Judges 15:14	When hee came to Lehi, the Philistims shouted against him, and the Spirite of the Lord came vpon him, and the cordes that were vpon his armes, became as flaxe that was burnt with fire: for the bandes loosed from his handes.
Judges 15:15	And he found a new iawebone of an asse, and put forth his hand, and caught it, and slewe a thousand men therewith.
Judges 15:16	Then Samson sayd, With the iaw of an asse are heapes vpon heapes: with the iawe of an asse haue I slaine a thousand men.
Judges 15:17	And when he had left speaking, hee cast away the iawebone out of his hande, and called that place, Ramath-Lehi.
Judges 15:18	And he was sore a thirst, and called on the Lord, and sayde, Thou hast giuen this great deliuerance into the hand of thy seruaunt: and nowe shall I dye for thirst, and fall into the handes of the vncircumcised?
Judges 15:19	Then God brake the cheeke tooth, that was in the iawe, and water came thereout: and when he had drunke, his Spirit came againe, and he was reuiued: wherefore the name therof is called, Enhakkore, which is in Lehi vnto this day.
Judges 15:20	And hee iudged Israel in the dayes of the Philistims twentie yeeres.
Judges 16:1	Then went Samson to Azzah, and sawe there an harlot, and went in vnto her.
Judges 16:2	And it was tolde to the Azzahites, Samson is come hither. And they went about, and laied wayte for him all night in the gate of the citie, and were quiet all the nyght, saying, Abide till the morning earely, and we shall kill him.
Judges 16:3	And Samson slept till midnight, and arose at midnight, and tooke the doores of the gates of the citie, and the two postes and lift them away with the barres, and put them vpon his shoulders, and caried them vp to the top of the mountaine that is before Hebron.
Judges 16:4	And after this hee loued a woman by the riuer of Sorek, whose name was Delilah:
Judges 16:5	Vnto whome came the princes of the Philistims, and said vnto her, Entise him, and see wherein his great strength lieth, and by what meane we may ouercome him, that we may binde him, and punish him, and euery one of vs shall giue thee eleuen hundreth shekels of siluer.
Judges 16:6	And Delilah saide to Samson, Tell mee, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength lieth, and wherewith thou mightest bee bound, to doe thee hurt.
Judges 16:7	Samson then answered vnto her, If they binde mee with seuen greene cordes, that were neuer dryed, then shall I bee weake, and be as an other man.
Judges 16:8	And the princes of the Philistims brought her seuen greene cordes that were not dry, and she bound him therewith.
Judges 16:9	(And she had men lying in wayte with her in the chamber) Then she said vnto him, The Philistims be vpon thee, Samson. And hee brake the cordes, as a threede of towe is broken, when it feeleth fire: so his strength was not knowen.
Judges 16:10	After Delilah saide vnto Samson, See, thou hast mocked mee and tolde mee lies. I pray thee nowe, tell me wherewith thou mightest be bound.
Judges 16:11	Then he answered her, If they binde mee with newe ropes that neuer were occupied, then shall I be weake, and be as an other man.
Judges 16:12	Delilah therefore tooke newe ropes, and bounde him therewith, and saide vnto him, The Philistims be vpon thee, Samson: (and men lay in wayte in the chamber) and hee brake them from his armes, as a threede.
Judges 16:13	Afterward Delilah said to Samson, Hitherto thou hast beguiled mee, and tolde me lies: tell me how thou mightest be bounde. And he sayde vnto her, If thou plattedst seuen lockes of mine head with the threedes of the woufe.
Judges 16:14	And she fastened it with a pinne, and saide vnto him, The Philistims be vpon thee, Samson. And he awoke out of his sleepe, and went away with the pinne of the webbe and the woufe.
Judges 16:15	Againe shee sayde vnto him, Howe canst thou say, I loue thee, when thine heart is not with me? thou hast mocked mee these three times, and hast not tolde me wherein thy great strength lieth.
Judges 16:16	And because shee was importunate vpon him with her wordes continually, and vexed him, his soule was pained vnto the death.
Judges 16:17	Therefore he tolde her all his heart, and said vnto her, There neuer came rasor vpon mine head: for I am a Nazarite vnto God from my mothers wombe: therefore if I bee shauen, my strength will goe from me, and I shalbe weake, and be like all other men.
Judges 16:18	And when Delilah sawe that he had tolde her all his heart, she sent, and called for the Princes of ye Philistims, saying, Come vp once againe: for he hath shewed mee all his heart. Then the Princes of the Philistims came vp vnto her, and brought the money in their handes.
Judges 16:19	And she made him sleepe vpon her knees, and she called a man, and made him to shaue off the seuen lockes of his head, and shee began to vexe him, and his strength was gone from him.
Judges 16:20	Then she said, The Philistims be vpon thee, Samson. And hee awoke out of his sleepe, and thought, I will go out now as at other times, and shake my selfe, but he knewe not that the Lord was departed from him.
Judges 16:21	Therefore the Philistims tooke him, and put out his eyes, and brought him downe to Azzah, and bounde him with fetters: and hee did grinde in the prison house.
Judges 16:22	And the heare of his head began to growe againe after that it was shauen.
Judges 16:23	Then the Princes of the Philistims gathered them together for to offer a great sacrifice vnto Dagon their god, and to reioyce: for they said, Our god hath deliuered Samson our enemie into our handes.
Judges 16:24	Also when the people saw him, they praysed their god: for they sayde, Our god hath deliuered into our hands our enemie and destroyer of our countrey, which hath slayne many of vs.
Judges 16:25	And when their heartes were merie, they said, Call Samson, that he may make vs pastime. So they called Samson out of the prison house, and he was a laughing stocke vnto them, and they set him betweene the pillars.
Judges 16:26	Then Samson saide vnto the seruant that led him by the hande, Lead me, that I may touch the pillars that the house standeth vpon, and that I may leane to them.
Judges 16:27	(Nowe the house was full of men and women, and there were all the princes of the Philistims: also vpon the roofe were about three thousande men and women that behelde while Samson played)
Judges 16:28	Then Samson called vnto the Lord, and sayde, O Lord God, I pray thee, thinke vpon me: O God, I beseech thee, strengthen me at this time onely, that I may be at once auenged of the Philistims for my two eyes.
Judges 16:29	And Samson layd hold on the two middle pillars whereupon the house stood, and on which it was borne vp: on the one with his right hand, and on the other with his left.
Judges 16:30	Then Samson saide, Let me lose my life with the Philistims: and he bowed him with all his might, and the house fell vpon the princes, and vpon all the people that were therein. so the dead which he slewe at his death were more then they which he had slaine in his life.
Judges 16:31	Then his brethren, and all the house of his father came downe and tooke him, and brought him vp and buryed him betweene Zorah and Eshtaol, in the sepulchre of Manoah his father: nowe he had iudged Israel twenty yeeres.
Judges 17:1	There was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Michah,
Judges 17:2	And he saide vnto his mother, The eleuen hundreth shekels of siluer that were taken from thee, for the which thou cursedst, and spakedst it, euen in mine hearing, beholde, the siluer is with me, I tooke it. Then his mother saide, Blessed be my sonne of the Lord.
Judges 17:3	And when he had restored the eleuen hundreth shekels of siluer to his mother, his mother sayd, I had dedicate the siluer to the Lord of mine hand for my sonne, to make a grauen and molten image. Now therfore I will giue it thee again.
Judges 17:4	And when he had restored the money vnto his mother, his mother tooke two hundreth shekels of siluer, and gaue them to the founder, which made thereof a grauen and molten image, and it was in the house of Michah.
Judges 17:5	And this man Michah had an house of gods, and made an Ephod, and Teraphim, and cosecrated one of his sonnes, who was his Priest.
Judges 17:6	In those dayes there was no King in Israel, but euery man did that which was good in his owne eyes.
Judges 17:7	There was also a yong man out of Bethlehem Iudah, of the familie of Iudah: who was a Leuite, and soiourned there.
Judges 17:8	And the man departed out of the citie, euen out of Beth-lehem Iudah, to dwell where he coulde finde a place: and as he iourneyed, he came to mount Ephraim to the house of Michah
Judges 17:9	And Michah saide vnto him, Whence comest thou? And the Leuite answered him, I come from Beth-lehem Iudah, and goe to dwell where I may finde a place.
Judges 17:10	Then Michah said vnto him, Dwell with me, and be vnto me a father and a Priest, and I will giue thee ten shekels of siluer by yeere, and a sute of apparell, and thy meate and drinke. So the Leuite went in.
Judges 17:11	And the Leuite was content to dwel with the man, and the yong man was vnto him as one of his owne sonnes.
Judges 17:12	And Michah consecrated the Leuite, and the yong man was his Priest, and was in the house of Michah.
Judges 17:13	Then said Michah, Nowe I know that the Lord will be good vnto me, seeing I haue a Leuite to my Priest.
Judges 18:1	In those dayes there was no King in Israel, and at the same time the tribe of Dan sought them an inheritance to dwell in: for vnto that time all their inheritance had not fallen vnto them among the tribes of Israel.
Judges 18:2	Therefore the children of Dan sent of their familie, fiue men out of their coastes, euen men expert in warre, out of Zorah and Eshtaol, to viewe the lande and search it out, and saide vnto them, Goe, and search out the lande. Then they came to mount Ephraim to the house of Michah and lodged there.
Judges 18:3	When they were in the house of Michah, they knewe the voyce of the yong man the Leuite: and being turned in thither, they saide vnto him, Who brought thee hither? or what makest thou in this place? and what hast thou to doe here?
Judges 18:4	And he answered them, Thus and thus dealeth Michah with me, and hath hired me, and I am his Priest.
Judges 18:5	Againe they said vnto him, Aske counsell nowe of God, that we may knowe whether the way which we goe, shalbe prosperous.
Judges 18:6	And the Priest sayde vnto them, Goe in peace: for the Lord guideth your way which ye goe.
Judges 18:7	Then the fiue men departed and came to Laish, and sawe the people that were therein, which dwelt carelesse, after the maner of the Zidonians, quiet and sure, because no man made any trouble in the lande, or vsurped any dominion: also they were farre from the Zidonians, and had no businesse with other men.
Judges 18:8	So they came againe vnto their brethren to Zorah and Eshtaol: and their brethren saide vnto them, What haue ye done?
Judges 18:9	And they answered, Arise, that we may goe vp against them: for we haue seene the lande, and surely it is very good, and doe ye sit stil? be not slouthfull to goe and enter to possesse the lande:
Judges 18:10	(If ye will goe, ye shall come vnto a carelesse people, and the countrey is large) for God hath giuen it into your hande. It is a place which doeth lacke nothing that is in the worlde.
Judges 18:11	Then there departed thence of the familie of the Danites, from Zorah and from Eshtaol, sixe hundreth men appointed with instruments of warre.
Judges 18:12	And they went vp, and pitched in Kiriath-iearim in Iudah: wherefore they called that place, Mahaneh-Dan vnto this day: and it is behinde Kiriath-iearim.
Judges 18:13	And they went thence vnto mount Ephraim, and came to the house of Michah.
Judges 18:14	Then answered the fiue men, that went to spie out the countrey of Laish, and said vnto their brethren, Knowe ye not, that there is in these houses an Ephod, and Teraphim, and a grauen and a molten image? Nowe therefore consider what ye haue to doe.
Judges 18:15	And they turned thitherward and came to the house of the yong man the Leuite, euen vnto the house of Michah, and saluted him peaceably.
Judges 18:16	And the six hundreth men appointed with their weapons of warre, which were of the children of Dan, stoode by the entring of the gate.
Judges 18:17	Then the fiue men that went to spie out the land, went in thither, and tooke the grauen image and the Ephod, and the Teraphim, and the molten image: and the Priest stoode in the entring of the gate with the sixe hundreth men, that were appointed with weapons of warre,
Judges 18:18	And the other went into Michahs house and fet the grauen image, the Ephod, and the Teraphim, and the molten image. Then saide the Priest vnto them, What doe ye?
Judges 18:19	And they answered him, Holde thy peace: lay thine hande vpon thy mouth, and come with vs to be our father and Priest. Whether is it better that thou shouldest be a Priest vnto ye house of one man, or that thou shouldest be a Priest vnto a tribe and to a familie in Israel?
Judges 18:20	And the Priestes heart was glad, and hee tooke the Ephod and the Teraphim, and the grauen image, and went among the people.
Judges 18:21	And they turned and departed, and put the children, and the cattell, and the substance before them.
Judges 18:22	When they were farre off from the house of Michah, the men that were in the houses neere to Michahs house, gathered together, and pursued after the children of Dan,
Judges 18:23	And cryed vnto the children of Dan: who turned their faces, and said vnto Michah, What ayleth thee, that thou makest an outcrie?
Judges 18:24	And hee saide, Yee haue taken away my gods, which I made, and the Priest, and go your wayes: and what haue I more? howe then say ye vnto me, what ayleth thee?
Judges 18:25	And the children of Dan sayde vnto him, Let not thy voyce be heard among vs, least angrie fellowes runne vpon thee, and thou lose thy life with the liues of thine housholde.
Judges 18:26	So the children of Dan went their wayes: and when Michah saw that they were too strong for him, hee turned, and went backe vnto his house.
Judges 18:27	And they tooke the things which Michah had made, and the Priest which he had, and came vnto Laish, vnto a quiet people and without mistrust, and smote them with the edge of the sworde, and burnt the citie with fire:
Judges 18:28	And there was none to helpe, because Laish was farre from Zidon, and they had no businesse with other men: also it was in the valley that lyeth by Beth-rehob. After, they built the citie, and dwelt therein,
Judges 18:29	And called the name of the citie Dan, after the name of Dan their father which was borne vnto Israel: howbeit the name of the city was Laish at the beginning.
Judges 18:30	Then the children of Dan set them vp the grauen image: and Ionathan the sonne of Gershom, the sonne of Manasseh and his sonnes were the Priestes in the tribe of the Danites vntil the day of the captiuitie of the lande.
Judges 18:31	So they set them vp the grauen image, which Michah had made, all the while the house of God was in Shiloh.
Judges 19:1	Also in those dayes, when there was no king in Israel, a certaine Leuite dwelt on the side of mount Ephraim, and tooke to wife a concubine out of Beth-lehem Iudah,
Judges 19:2	And his concubine played ye whore there, and went away from him vnto her fathers house to Beth-lehem Iudah, and there continued the space of foure moneths.
Judges 19:3	And her husband arose and went after her, to speake friendly vnto her, and to bring her againe: he had also his seruant with him, and a couple of asses: and she brought him vnto her fathers house, and when the yong womans father sawe him, he reioyced of his comming.
Judges 19:4	And his father in lawe, the yong womans father reteined him: and he abode with him three dayes: so they did eate and drinke, and lodged there.
Judges 19:5	And when the fourth day came, they arose earely in the morning, and he prepared to depart: then the yong womans father said vnto his sonne in lawe, Comfort thine heart with a morsel of bread, and then go your way.
Judges 19:6	So they sate downe, and did eate and drinke both of them together. And the yong womans father said vnto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and tary all night, and let thine heart be merie.
Judges 19:7	And when the man rose vp to depart, his father in lawe was earnest: therefore he returned, and lodged there.
Judges 19:8	And he arose vp earely the fifth day to depart, and the yong womans father saide, Comfort thine heart, I pray thee: and they taryed vntill after midday, and they both did eate.
Judges 19:9	Afterwarde when the man arose to depart with his concubine and his seruant, his father in lawe, the yong womans father said vnto him, Beholde nowe, the day draweth towarde euen: I pray you, tary all night: beholde, the sunne goeth to rest: lodge here, that thine heart may be merie, and to morowe get you earely vpon your way, and goe to thy tent.
Judges 19:10	But the man would not tarry, but arose and departed, and came ouer against Iebus, (which is Ierusalem) and his two asses laden, and his concubine were with him.
Judges 19:11	When they were neere to Iebus, the day was sore spent, and the seruant said vnto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let vs turne into this citie of the Iebusites, and lodge all night there.
Judges 19:12	And his master answered him, We will not turne into the citie of strangers that are not of the children of Israel, but we will goe forth to Gibeah.
Judges 19:13	And he said vnto his seruant, Come, and let vs drawe neere to one of these places, that wee may lodge in Gibeah or in Ramah.
Judges 19:14	So they went forward vpon their way, and the sunne went downe vpon them neere to Gibeah, which is in Beniamin.
Judges 19:15	Then they turned thither to goe in and lodge in Gibeah: and when he came, he sate him downe in a streete of the citie: for there was no man that tooke them into his house to lodging.
Judges 19:16	And beholde, there came an old man from his work out of the field at euen, and the man was of mount Ephraim, but dwelt in Gibeah: and the men of the place were the children of Iemini.
Judges 19:17	And when he had lift vp his eyes, he sawe a wayfairing man in the streetes of the citie: then this olde man sayde, Whither goest thou, and whence camest thou?
Judges 19:18	And hee answered him, Wee came from Beth-lehem Iudah, vnto the side of Mout Ephraim: from thence am I: and I went to Beth-lehem Iudah, and go now to the house of the Lord: and no man receiueth mee to house,
Judges 19:19	Although we haue straw and prouader for our asses, and also bread and wine for me and thine handmayde, and for the boy that is with thy seruant: we lacke nothing.
Judges 19:20	And the olde man sayde, Peace bee with thee: as for all that thou lackest, shalt thou finde with me: onely abide not in the streete al night.
Judges 19:21	So he brought him into his house, and gaue fodder vnto the asses: and they washed their feete, and did eate and drinke.
Judges 19:22	And as they were making their hearts merie, beholde, the men of the citie, wicked men beset the house round about, and smote at the doore, and spake to this olde man the master of the house saying, Bring forth the man that came into thine house that we may knowe him.
Judges 19:23	And this man the master of ye house went out vnto the, and said vnto them, Nay my brethre, do not so wickedly, I pray you: seeing that this man is come into mine house, do not this villenie.
Judges 19:24	Behold, here is my daughter, a virgine, and his concubine: them wil I bring out nowe, and humble them, and doe with them what seemeth you good: but to this man doe not this villenie.
Judges 19:25	But the men woulde not hearken to him: therefore ye man tooke his concubine, and brought her out vnto them: and they knewe her and abused her all the night vnto the morning: and when the day began to spring, they let her goe.
Judges 19:26	So the woman came in the dawning of the day, and fell downe at the doore of the mans house where her Lord was, till the light day.
Judges 19:27	And her lorde arose in the morning, and opened the doores of the house, and went out to goe his way, and beholde, the woman his concubine was dead at the doore of the house and her handes lay vpon the thresholde.
Judges 19:28	And hee said vnto her, Vp and let vs goe: but shee answered not. Then he tooke her vp vpon the asse, and the man rose vp, and went vnto his place.
Judges 19:29	And whe he was come to his house, he took a knife, and laid hand on his concubine, and deuided her in pieces with her bones into twelue parts, and sent her through all quarters of Israel.
Judges 19:30	And all that saw it, said, There was no such thing done or seene since the time that the children of Israel came vp from the lande of Egypt vnto this day: consider the matter, consult and giue sentence.
Judges 20:1	Then all the children of Israel went out, and the Congregation was gathered together as one man, from Dan to Beersheba, with the land of Gilead, vnto the Lord in Mizpeh.
Judges 20:2	And the chiefe of all the people, and all the tribes of Israel assembled in the Congregation of the people of God foure hundreth thousand footemen that drewe sword.
Judges 20:3	(Now the children of Beniamin heard that the children of Israel were gone vp to Mizpeh) Then the children of Israel saide, Howe is this wickednesse committed?
Judges 20:4	And the same Leuite, the womans husband that was slaine, answered and saide, I came vnto Gibeah that is in Beniamin with my concubine to lodge,
Judges 20:5	And the men of Gibeah arose against me, and beset the house round about vpon mee by night, thinking to haue slaine me, and haue forced my concubine that she is dead.
Judges 20:6	Then I tooke my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the countrey of the inheritance of Israel: for they haue committed abomination and villenie in Israel.
Judges 20:7	Behold, ye are al children of Israel: giue your aduise, and counsell herein.
Judges 20:8	Then all the people arose as one man, saying, There shall not a man of vs goe to his tent, neither any turne into his house.
Judges 20:9	But now this is that thing which we will do to Gibeah: we wil goe vp by lot against it,
Judges 20:10	And we wil take ten men of the hundreth throughout al the tribes of Israel, and an hundreth of the thousand, and a thousand of ten thousand to bring vitaile for the people that they may do (when they come to Gibeah of Beniamin) according to all the villeny, that it hath done in Israel.
Judges 20:11	So all the men of Israel were gathered against the citie, knit together, as one man.
Judges 20:12	And the tribes of Israel sent men through al the tribe of Beniamin, saying, What wickednesse is this that is committed among you?
Judges 20:13	Nowe therefore deliuer vs those wicked men which are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away euill from Israel: but the children of Beniamin would not obey the voyce of their brethren the children of Israel.
Judges 20:14	But ye children of Beniamin gathered them selues together out of the cities vnto Gibeah, to come out and fight against the children of Israel.
Judges 20:15	And ye children of Beniamin were nombred at that time out of the cities sixe and twenty thousand men that drewe sworde, beside the inhabitants of Gibeah, which were nombred seuen hundreth chosen men.
Judges 20:16	Of all this people were seuen hundreth chosen men, being left handed: all these could sling stones at an heare breadth, and not faile.
Judges 20:17	Also the men of Israel, beside Beniamin, were nombred foure hundreth thousande men that drew sword, euen all men of warre.
Judges 20:18	And the children of Israel arose, and went vp to the house of God, and asked of God, saying, Which of vs shall goe vp first to fight against the children of Beniamin? And the Lord said, Iudah shalbe first.
Judges 20:19	Then the children of Israel arose vp earely and camped against Gibeah.
Judges 20:20	And the men of Israel went out to battell against Beniamin, and the men of Israel put themselues in aray to fight against the beside Gibeah.
Judges 20:21	And the children of Beniamin came out of Gibeah, and slewe downe to the ground of the Israelites that day two and twentie thousand men.
Judges 20:22	And the people, the men of Israel plucked vp their hearts, and set their battel againe in aray in the place where they put them in aray the first day.
Judges 20:23	(For the children of Israel had gone vp and wept before the Lord vnto the euening, and had asked of the Lord, saying, Shall I goe againe to battel against the children of Beniamin my brethren? and the Lord said, Go vp against them)
Judges 20:24	Then the children of Israel came neere against the children of Beniamin the second day.
Judges 20:25	Also the second day Beniamin came forth to meete them out of Gibeah, and slewe downe to the grounde of the children of Israel againe eighteene thousand men: all they could handle the sword.
Judges 20:26	Then al the children of Israel went vp and all the people came also vnto the house of God, and wept and sate there before the Lord and fasted that day vnto the euening, and offred burnt offrings and peace offrings before the Lord.
Judges 20:27	And the children of Israel asked the Lord (for there was the Arke of the couenat of God in those dayes,
Judges 20:28	And Phinehas the sonne of Eleazar, the sonne of Aaron stoode before it at that time) saying, Shall I yet goe anie more to battel against the children of Beniamin my brethren, or shall I cease? And the Lord said, Go vp: for to morowe I will deliuer them into your hand.
Judges 20:29	And Israel set men to lie in waite round about Gibeah.
Judges 20:30	And the children of Israel went vp against the children of Beniamin the third day, and put theselues in aray against Gibeah, as at other times.
Judges 20:31	Then the children of Beniamin comming out against the people, were drawen from the citie: and they began to smite of ye people and kill as at other times, euen by the wayes in the fielde (whereof one goeth vp to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah) vpon a thirtie men of Israel.
Judges 20:32	(For the children of Beniamin sayd, They are fallen before vs, as at the first. But the children of Israel saide, Let vs flee and plucke them away from the citie vnto the hie wayes)
Judges 20:33	And all the men of Israel rose vp out of their place, and put themselues in aray at Baal-tamar: and the men that lay in wayte of the Israelites came forth of their place, euen out of the medowes of Gibeah,
Judges 20:34	And they came ouer against Gibeah, ten thousande chosen men of all Israel, and the battell was sore: for they knewe not that the euill was neere them.
Judges 20:35	And the Lord smote Beniamin before Israel, and the children of Israel destroyed of the Beniamites the same day fiue and twenty thousand and an hundreth men: all they could handle the sword.
Judges 20:36	So the children of Beniamin sawe that they were striken downe: for the men of Israel gaue place to the Beniamites, because they trusted to the men that lay in waite, which they had laide beside Gibeah.
Judges 20:37	And they that lay in wait hasted, and brake forth toward Gibeah, and the ambushment drewe themselues along, and smote all the citie with the edge of the sword.
Judges 20:38	Also the men of Israel had appoynted a certaine time with the ambushmentes, that they should make a great flame and smoke rise vp out of the citie.
Judges 20:39	And when the men of Israel retired in the battel, Beniamin began to smite and kill of the men of Israel about thirtie persons: for they said, Surely they are striken downe before vs, as in the first battell.
Judges 20:40	But when the flame bega to arise out of the citie, as a pillar of smoke, the Beniamites looked backe, and behold, the flame of the citie began to ascend vp to heauen.
Judges 20:41	Then the men of Israel turned againe, and the men of Beniamin were astonied: for they saw that euill was neere vnto them.
Judges 20:42	Therefore they fled before the men of Israel vnto the way of the wildernesse, but the battell ouertooke them: also they which came out of the cities, slew them among them.
Judges 20:43	Thus they compassed the Beniamites about, and chased them at ease, and ouerranne them, euen ouer against Gibeah on the Eastside.
Judges 20:44	And there were slaine of Beniamin eyghteene thousad men, which were all men of warre.
Judges 20:45	And they turned and fled to the wildernes vnto the rocke of Rimmon: and the Israelites glayned of them by the way fiue thousand men, and pursued after them vnto Gidom, and slewe two thousand men of them,
Judges 20:46	So that all that were slayne that day of Beniamin, were fiue and twentie thousand men that drewe sword, which were all men of warre:
Judges 20:47	But sixe hundreth men turned and fled to the wildernesse vnto the rocke of Rimmon, and abode in the rocke of Rimmon foure moneths.
Judges 20:48	Then the men of Israel returned vnto the children of Beniamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword from the men of the citie vnto the beasts, and all that came to hand: also they set on fire all the cities that they coulde come by.
Judges 21:1	Moreouer, the men of Israel sware in Mizpeh, saying, None of vs shall giue his daughter vnto the Beniamites to wyfe.
Judges 21:2	And the people came vnto ye house of God and abode there till euen before God, and lift vp their voyces, and wept with great lamentation,
Judges 21:3	And sayde, O Lord God of Israel, why is this come to passe in Israel, that this day one tribe of Israel should want?
Judges 21:4	And on the morow the people rose vp and made there an altar, and offred burnt offrings and peace offrings.
Judges 21:5	Then the children of Israel said, Who is he among all the tribes of Israel, that came not vp with the Congregation vnto the Lord? for they had made a great othe concerning him that came not vp to the Lord to Mizpeh, saying, Let him die the death.
Judges 21:6	And the children of Israel were sory for Beniamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.
Judges 21:7	How shall we do for wiues to them that remaine, seeing we haue sworne by the Lord, that we will not giue them of our daughters to wiues?
Judges 21:8	Also they saide, Is there any of the tribes of Israel that came not vp to Mizpeh to the Lord? and beholde, there came none of Iabesh Gilead vnto the hoste and to the Congregation.
Judges 21:9	For when the people were vewed; beholde, none of the inhabitants of Iabesh Gilead were there.
Judges 21:10	Therefore the Congregation sent thither twelue thousande men of the most valiant, and commanded them, saying, Goe, and smite the inhabitants of Iabesh Gilead with the edge of the sword, both women, and children.
Judges 21:11	And this is it that ye shall do: ye shall vtterly destroye all the males and all the women that haue lien by men.
Judges 21:12	And they found among the inhabitants of Iabesh Gilead foure hundreth maides, virgins that had knowne no man by lying with any male: and they brought them vnto the hoste to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Judges 21:13	Then the whole Congregation sent and spake with the children of Beniamin that were in the rocke of Rimmon, and called peaceably vnto them:
Judges 21:14	And Beniamin came againe at that time, and they gaue them wiues which they had saued aliue of the women of Iabesh Gilead: but they had not so ynough for them.
Judges 21:15	And the people were sorie for Beniamin, because the Lord had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
Judges 21:16	Therefore the Elders of the Congregation said, How shall we doe for wiues to the remnant? for the women of Beniamin are destroyed.
Judges 21:17	And they saide, there must be an inheritance for them that be escaped of Beniamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.
Judges 21:18	Howbeit we may not giue them wiues of our daughters: for the childre of Israel had sworne, saying, Cursed be he that giueth a wise to Beniamin.
Judges 21:19	Therefore they said, Beholde, there is a feast of the Lord euery yere in Shiloh in a place, which is on the Northside of Beth-el, and on the Eastside of the way that goeth vp from Beth-el to Shechem, and on the South of Lebonah.
Judges 21:20	Therefore they commanded the children of Beniamin, saying, Goe, and lye in waite in the vineyardes.
Judges 21:21	And when ye see that the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dances, then come ye out of the vineyards, and catche you euery man a wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and goe into the land of Beniamin.
Judges 21:22	And when their fathers or their brethren come vnto vs to complaine, we wil say vnto them, Haue pitie on them for our sakes, because we reserued not to eche man his wife in the warre, and because ye haue not giuen vnto them hitherto, ye haue sinned.
Judges 21:23	And the children of Beniamin did so, and tooke wiues of them that danced according to their nomber: which they tooke, and went away, and returned to their inheritance, and repaired the cities and dwelt in them.
Judges 21:24	So the children of Israel departed thence at that time, euery man to his tribe, and to his familie, and went out from thence euery man to his inheritance.
Judges 21:25	In those dayes there was no King in Israel, but euery man did that which was good in his eyes.
