GENEVA 1599 PUBLIC DOMAIN CORPUS

===== BOOK: Deuteronomy =====
Deuteronomy 1:1	These bee the wordes which Moses spake vnto all Israel, on this side Iorden in the wildernesse, in the plaine, ouer against the red Sea, betweene Paran and Tophel, and Laban, and Hazeroth, and Di-zahab.
Deuteronomy 1:2	There are eleuen dayes iourney from Horeb vnto Kadesh-barnea, by the way of mout Seir.
Deuteronomy 1:3	And it came to passe in the first day of the eleuenth moneth, in the fourtieth yeere that Moses spake vnto the children of Israel according vnto all that the Lord had giuen him in commandement vnto them,
Deuteronomy 1:4	After that he had slaine Sihon the king of the Amorites which dwelt in Heshbon, and Og king of Bashan, which dwelt at Ashtaroth in Edrei.
Deuteronomy 1:5	On this side Iorden in the lande of Moab began Moses to declare this lawe, saying,
Deuteronomy 1:6	The Lord our God spake vnto vs in Horeb, saying, Ye haue dwelt long ynough in this mount,
Deuteronomy 1:7	Turne you and depart, and goe vnto the mountaine of the Amorites, and vnto all places neere thereunto in the plaine, in the mountaine, or in the valley: both Southwarde, and to the Sea side, to the land of the Canaanites, and vnto Lebanon: euen vnto the great riuer, the riuer Perath.
Deuteronomy 1:8	Beholde, I haue set the land before you: go in and possesse that land which the Lord sware vnto your fathers, Abraham, Izhak, and Iaakob, to giue vnto them and to their seede after them.
Deuteronomy 1:9	And I spake vnto you the same time, saying, I am not able to beare you my selfe alone:
Deuteronomy 1:10	The Lord your God hath multiplied you: and beholde, ye are this day as the starres of heauen in nomber:
Deuteronomy 1:11	(The Lord God of your fathers make you a thousand times so many moe as ye are, and blesse you, as he hath promised you)
Deuteronomy 1:12	Howe can I alone beare your combrance and your charge, and your strife?
Deuteronomy 1:13	Bring you men of wisedome and of vnderstanding, and knowen among your tribes, and I will make them rulers ouer you:
Deuteronomy 1:14	Then ye answered me and said, The thing is good that thou hast commanded vs to doe.
Deuteronomy 1:15	So I tooke the chiefe of your tribes wise and knowen men, and made them rulers ouer you, captaines ouer thousands, and captaines ouer hundreds, and captaines ouer fiftie, and captaines ouer tenne, and officers among your tribes.
Deuteronomy 1:16	And I charged your iudges that same time, saying, Heare the controuersies betweene your brethren, and iudge righteously betweene euery man and his brother, and the stranger that is with him.
Deuteronomy 1:17	Ye shall haue no respect of person in iudgement, but shall heare the small aswell as the great: yee shall not feare the face of man: for the iudgement is Gods: and the cause that is too hard for you, bring vnto me, and I will heare it.
Deuteronomy 1:18	Also I commanded you the same time all the things which ye should doe.
Deuteronomy 1:19	Then we departed from Horeb, and went through all that great and terrible wildernesse (as yee haue seene) by the way of the mountaine of the Amorites, as the Lord our God commanded vs: and we came to Kadesh-barnea.
Deuteronomy 1:20	And I saide vnto you, Yee are come vnto the mountaine of the Amorites, which the Lord our God doeth giue vnto vs.
Deuteronomy 1:21	Beholde, the Lord thy God hath layde the land before thee: go vp and possesse it, as the Lord the God of thy fathers hath saide vnto thee: feare not, neither be discouraged.
Deuteronomy 1:22	Then ye came vnto me euery one, and said, We wil send men before vs, to search vs out the land and to bring vs word againe, what way we must go vp by, and vnto what cities we shall come.
Deuteronomy 1:23	So the saying pleased me well, and I tooke twelue men of you, of euery tribe one.
Deuteronomy 1:24	Who departed, and went vp into the mountaine, and came vnto the riuer Eshcol, and searched out the land.
Deuteronomy 1:25	And tooke of the fruite of the land in their hands, and brought it vnto vs, and brought vs worde againe, and sayd, It is a good land, which the Lord our God doeth giue vs.
Deuteronomy 1:26	Notwithstanding, ye would not go vp, but were disobedient vnto the commandement of the Lord your God,
Deuteronomy 1:27	And murmured in your tentes, and sayd, Because the Lord hated vs, therefore hath hee brought vs out of the land of Egypt, to deliuer vs into the hand of the Amorites, and to destroy vs.
Deuteronomy 1:28	Whither shall we go vp? our brethren haue discouraged our hearts, saying, The people is greater, and taller then we: the cities are great and walled vp to heauen: and moreouer we haue seene the sonnes of the Anakims there.
Deuteronomy 1:29	But I sayd vnto you, Dread not, nor be afrayd of them.
Deuteronomy 1:30	The Lord your God, who goeth before you, he shall fight for you, according to all that he did vnto you in Egypt before your eyes,
Deuteronomy 1:31	And in the wildernesse, where thou hast seene how the Lord thy God bare thee, as a man doeth beare his sonne, in all the way which ye haue gone, vntill ye came vnto this place.
Deuteronomy 1:32	Yet for all this ye did not beleeue the Lord your God,
Deuteronomy 1:33	Who went in the way before you, to search you out a place to pitch your tentes in, in fire by night, that ye might see what way to goe, and in a cloude by day.
Deuteronomy 1:34	Then the Lord heard the voyce of your wordes, and was wroth, and sware, saying,
Deuteronomy 1:35	Surely there shall not one of these men of this froward generation, see that good land, which I sware to giue vnto your fathers,
Deuteronomy 1:36	Saue Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh: he shall see it, and to him will I giue the land that he hath troden vpon, and to his children, because he hath constantly followed the Lord.
Deuteronomy 1:37	Also the Lord was angry with me for your sakes, saying, Thou also shalt not goe in thither,
Deuteronomy 1:38	But Ioshua the sonne of Nun which standeth before thee, he shall go in thither: incourage him: for he shall cause Israel to inherite it.
Deuteronomy 1:39	Moreouer, your children, which ye sayd should be a praye, and your sonnes, which in that day had no knowledge betweene good and euill, they shall go in thither, and vnto them wil I giue it, and they shall possesse it.
Deuteronomy 1:40	But as for you, turne backe, and take your iourney into the wildernesse by the way of the red Sea.
Deuteronomy 1:41	Then ye answered and sayd vnto me, We haue sinned against the Lord, we wil go vp, and fight, according to all that the Lord our God hath commanded vs: and ye armed you euery man to the warre, and were ready to goe vp into the mountaine.
Deuteronomy 1:42	But the Lord said vnto me, Say vnto them, Goe not vp, neither fight, (for I am not among you) least ye fall before your enemies.
Deuteronomy 1:43	And when I told you, ye would not heare, but rebelled against the commandement of the Lord, and were presumptuous, and went vp into the mountaine.
Deuteronomy 1:44	Then the Amorites which dwelt in that mountaine came out against you, and chased you (as bees vse to doe) and destroied you in Seir, euen vnto Hormah.
Deuteronomy 1:45	And when ye came againe, ye wept before the Lord, but the Lord would not heare your voyce, nor incline his eares vnto you.
Deuteronomy 1:46	So ye abode in Kadesh a long time, according to the time that ye had remained before.
Deuteronomy 2:1	Then we turned, and tooke our iourney into the wildernes, by the way of the red Sea, as the Lord spake vnto me: and we compassed mount Seir a long time.
Deuteronomy 2:2	And the Lord spake vnto me, saying,
Deuteronomy 2:3	Ye haue compassed this mountaine long ynough: turne you Northward.
Deuteronomy 2:4	And warne thou the people, saying, Ye shall go through the coast of your brethren the children of Esau, which dwell in Seir, and they shall be afraide of you: take ye good heede therefore.
Deuteronomy 2:5	Ye shall not prouoke them: for I wil not giue you of their land so much as a foot breadth, because I haue giuen mount Seir vnto Esau for a possession.
Deuteronomy 2:6	Ye shall buy meate of them for money to eate, and ye shall also procure water of them for money to drinke.
Deuteronomy 2:7	For the Lord thy God hath blessed thee in all the workes of thine hand: he knoweth thy walking through this great wildernes, and the Lord thy God hath bene with thee this fourtie yeere, and thou hast lacked nothing.
Deuteronomy 2:8	And when we were departed from our brethren the children of Esau which dwelt in Seir, through the way of the plaine, from Elath, and from Ezion-gaber, we turned and went by the way of the wildernes of Moab.
Deuteronomy 2:9	Then the Lord sayd vnto me, Thou shalt not vexe Moab, neither prouoke them to battel: for I wil not giue thee of their land for a possession, because I haue giuen Ar vnto the children of Lot for a possession.
Deuteronomy 2:10	The Emims dwelt therein in times past, a people great and many, and tall, as the Anakims.
Deuteronomy 2:11	They also were taken for gyants as the Anakims: whom the Moabites call Emims.
Deuteronomy 2:12	The Horims also dwelt in Seir before time, whome the children of Esau chased out and destroyed them before them, and dwelt in their steade: as Israel shall doe vnto the land of his possession, which the Lord hath giuen them.
Deuteronomy 2:13	Now rise vp, sayd I, and get you ouer the riuer Zered: and we went ouer the riuer Zered.
Deuteronomy 2:14	The space also wherein we came from Kadesh-barnea, vntill we were come ouer the riuer Zered, was eight and thirtie yeeres, vntill all the generation of the men of warre were wasted out from among the hoste, as the Lord sware vnto them.
Deuteronomy 2:15	For in deede the hand of the Lord was against them, to destroy them from among the hoste, till they were consumed.
Deuteronomy 2:16	So when all the men of warre were consumed and dead from among the people:
Deuteronomy 2:17	Then the Lord spake vnto me, saying,
Deuteronomy 2:18	Thou shalt goe through Ar the coast of Moab this day:
Deuteronomy 2:19	And thou shalt come neere ouer against the children of Ammon: but shalt not lay siege vnto them, nor moue warre against them: for I will not giue thee of the land of the children of Ammon any possession: for I haue giuen it vnto the children of Lot for a possession.
Deuteronomy 2:20	That also was taken for a land of gyants: for gyants dwelt therein afore time, whome the Ammonites called Zamzummims:
Deuteronomy 2:21	A people that was great, and many, and tall, as the Anakims: but the Lord destroyed them before them, and they succeeded them in their inheritance, and dwelt in their stead:
Deuteronomy 2:22	As he did to the children of Esau which dwell in Seir, when he destroyed the Horims before them, and they possessed them, and dwelt in their stead vnto this day.
Deuteronomy 2:23	And the Auims which dwelt in Hazarim euen vnto Azzah, the Caphtorims which came out of Caphtor destroyed them, and dwelt in their steade.
Deuteronomy 2:24	Rise vp therefore, sayd the Lord: take your iourney, and passe ouer the riuer Arnon: beholde, I haue giuen into thy hand Sihon, the Amorite, King of Heshbon, and his land: begin to possesse it and prouoke him to battell.
Deuteronomy 2:25	This day wil I begin to send thy feare and thy dread, vpon all people vnder the whole heauen, which shall heare thy fame, and shall tremble and quake before thee.
Deuteronomy 2:26	Then I sent messengers out of the wildernes of Kedemoth vnto Sihon King of Heshbon, with wordes of peace, saying,
Deuteronomy 2:27	Let me passe through thy land: I will go by the hie way: I will neither turne vnto the right hand nor to the left.
Deuteronomy 2:28	Thou shalt sell me meate for money, for to eate, and shalt giue me water for money for to drinke: onely I will go through on my foote,
Deuteronomy 2:29	(As the children of Esau which dwell in Seir, and the Moabites which dwell in Ar, did vnto me) vntill I be come ouer Iorden, into the land which the Lord our God giueth vs.
Deuteronomy 2:30	But Sihon the King of Heshbon would not let vs passe by him: for the Lord thy God had hardened his spirit, and made his heart obstinate, because hee would deliuer him into thine hand, as appeareth this day.
Deuteronomy 2:31	And the Lord sayd vnto me, Beholde, I haue begun to giue Sihon and his land before thee: begin to possesse and inherite his land.
Deuteronomy 2:32	Then came out Sihon to meete vs, him selfe with all his people to fight at Iahaz.
Deuteronomy 2:33	But the Lord our God deliuered him into our power, and we smote him, and his sonnes, and all his people.
Deuteronomy 2:34	And we tooke all his cities the same time, and destroyed euery citie, men, and women, and children: we let nothing remaine.
Deuteronomy 2:35	Onely the cattell we tooke to our selues, and the spoyle of the cities which we tooke,
Deuteronomy 2:36	From Aroer, which is by the banke of the riuer of Arnon, and from the citie that is vpon the riuer, euen vnto Gilead: there was not one citie that escaped vs: for the Lord our God deliuered vp all before vs.
Deuteronomy 2:37	Onely vnto the land of the children of Ammon thou camest not, nor vnto any place of the riuer Iabbok, nor vnto the cities in the mountaines, nor vnto whatsoeuer the Lord our God forbade vs.
Deuteronomy 3:1	Then we turned, and went vp by the way of Bashan: and Og King of Bashan came out against vs, he, and all his people to fight at Edrei.
Deuteronomy 3:2	And the Lord sayde vnto me, Feare him not, for I will deliuer him, and all his people, and his land into thine hand, and thou shalt doe vnto him as thou diddest vnto Sihon King of the Amorites, which dwelt at Heshbon.
Deuteronomy 3:3	So the Lord our God deliuered also vnto our hand, Og the King of Bashan, and all his people: and we smote him, vntill none was left him aliue,
Deuteronomy 3:4	And we tooke all his cities the same time, neither was there a citie which we tooke not from them, euen three score cities, and all ye countrey of Argob, the kingdome of Og in Bashan.
Deuteronomy 3:5	All these cities were fenced with hie walles, gates and barres, beside vnwalled townes a great many.
Deuteronomy 3:6	And we ouerthrewe them, as we did vnto Sihon King of Heshbon, destroying euery citie, with men, women, and children.
Deuteronomy 3:7	But all the cattell and the spoyle of the cities we tooke for our selues.
Deuteronomy 3:8	Thus we tooke at that time out of the hand of two Kings of the Amorites, the land that was on this side Iorden from the riuer of Arnon vnto mount Hermon:
Deuteronomy 3:9	(Which Hermon the Sidonians call Shirion, but the Amorites call it Shenir)
Deuteronomy 3:10	All the cities of the plaine, and all Gilead, and all Bashan vnto Salchah, and Edrei, cities of the kingdome of Og in Bashan.
Deuteronomy 3:11	For onely Og King of Bashan remained of the remnant of the gyants, whose bed was a bed of yron: is it not at Rabbath among the children of Ammon? the length thereof is nine cubites, and foure cubites the breadth of it, after the cubite of a man.
Deuteronomy 3:12	And this land which we possessed at that time, from Aroer, which is by the riuer of Arnon, and halfe mount Gilead, and the cities thereof, gaue I vnto the Reubenites and Gadites.
Deuteronomy 3:13	And the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, the kingdome of Og, gaue I vnto the halfe tribe of Manasseh: euen all the countrey of Argob with all Bashan, which is called, The land of gyants.
Deuteronomy 3:14	Iair the sonne of Manasseh tooke all the countrey of Argob, vnto the coastes of Geshuri, and of Maachathi: and called them after his owne name, Bashan, Hauoth Iair vnto this day.
Deuteronomy 3:15	And I gaue part of Gilead vnto Machir.
Deuteronomy 3:16	And vnto the Reubenites and Gadites I gaue the rest of Gilead, and vnto the riuer of Arnon, halfe the riuer and the borders, euen vnto the riuer Iabbok, which is the border of the children of Ammon:
Deuteronomy 3:17	The plaine also and Iorden, and the borders from Chinneereth euen vnto the Sea of the plaine, to wit, the salt Sea vnder the springs of Pisgah Eastwarde.
Deuteronomy 3:18	And I commanded you the same time, saying, The Lord your God hath giuen you this lande to possesse it: ye shall goe ouer armed before your brethren the children of Israel, all men of warre.
Deuteronomy 3:19	Your wiues onely, and your children, and your cattel (for I know that ye haue much cattel) shall abide in your cities, which I haue giuen you,
Deuteronomy 3:20	Vntill the Lord haue giuen rest vnto your brethren as vnto you, and that they also possesse the lande, which the Lord your God hath giuen them beyond Iorden: then shall ye returne euery man vnto his possession, which I haue giuen you.
Deuteronomy 3:21	And I charged Ioshua the same time, saying, Thine eyes haue seene all that the Lord your God hath done vnto these two Kings: so shall the Lord doe vnto all the kingdomes whither thou goest.
Deuteronomy 3:22	Ye shall not feare them: for the Lord your God, he shall fight for you.
Deuteronomy 3:23	And I besought the Lord the same time, saying,
Deuteronomy 3:24	O Lord God, thou hast begunne to shewe thy seruant thy greatnesse and thy mightie hande: for where is there a God in heauen or in earth, that can do like thy workes, and like thy power?
Deuteronomy 3:25	I pray thee let me go ouer and see the good land that is beyond Iorden, that goodly mountaine, and Lebanon.
Deuteronomy 3:26	But the Lord was angrie with me for your sakes, and would not heare me: and the Lord said vnto me, Let it suffice thee, speake no more vnto me of this matter.
Deuteronomy 3:27	Get thee vp into the top of Pisgah, and lift vp thine eyes Westward, and Northwarde, and Southward, and Eastward, and behold it with thine eyes, for thou shalt not goe ouer this Iorden:
Deuteronomy 3:28	But charge Ioshua, and incourage him, and bolden him: for hee shall goe before this people, and he shall deuide for inheritance vnto them, the land which thou shalt see.
Deuteronomy 3:29	So wee abode in the valley ouer against Beth-Peor.
Deuteronomy 4:1	Nowe therefore hearken, O Israel, vnto the ordinances and to the lawes which I teache you to doe, that ye may liue and goe in, and possesse the lande, which the Lord God of your fathers giueth you.
Deuteronomy 4:2	Ye shall put nothing vnto the word which I command you, neither shall ye take ought there from, that ye may keepe the commandements of the Lord your God which I commande you.
Deuteronomy 4:3	Your eyes haue seene what the Lord did because of Baal-Peor, for al the men that folowed Baal-Peor the Lord thy God hath destroyed euery one from among you.
Deuteronomy 4:4	But ye that did cleaue vnto the Lord your God, are aliue euery one of you this day.
Deuteronomy 4:5	Behold, I haue taught you ordinances, and lawes, as the Lord my God commanded me, that ye should doe euen so within the land whither ye goe to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 4:6	Keepe them therefore, and doe them; for that is your wisdome, and your vnderstanding in the sight of the people, which shall heare all these ordinances, and shall say, Onely this people is wise, and of vnderstanding, and a great nation.
Deuteronomy 4:7	For what nation is so great, vnto whome the gods come so neere vnto them, as the Lord our God is neere vnto vs, in all that we call vnto him for?
Deuteronomy 4:8	And what nation is so great, that hath ordinances and lawes so righteous, as all this Lawe, which I set before you this day?
Deuteronomy 4:9	But take heede to thy selfe, and keepe thy soule diligently, that thou forget not the thinges which thine eyes haue seene, and that they depart not out of thine heart, all the dayes of thy life: but teach them thy sonnes, and thy sonnes sonnes:
Deuteronomy 4:10	Forget not the day that thou stoodest before the Lord thy God in Horeb, when the Lord said vnto me, Gather me the people together, and I wil cause them heare my wordes, that they may learne to feare me all the dayes that they shall liue vpon the earth, and that they may teache their children:
Deuteronomy 4:11	Then came you neere and stoode vnder the mountaine, and the mountaine burnt with fire vnto the mids of heauen, and there was darkenesse, cloudes and mist.
Deuteronomy 4:12	And the Lord spake vnto you out of the middes of the fire, and ye heard the voyce of the wordes, but sawe no similitude, saue a voyce.
Deuteronomy 4:13	Then hee declared vnto you his couenant which he commanded you to doe, euen the ten commandements, and wrote them vpon two tables of stone.
Deuteronomy 4:14	And the Lord commanded me that same time, that I should teach you ordinances and lawes, which ye should obserue in the lande, whither ye goe, to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 4:15	Take therefore good heede vnto your selues: for ye sawe no image in the day that the Lord spake vnto you in Horeb out of the middes of the fire:
Deuteronomy 4:16	That ye corrupt not your selues, and make you a grauen image or representation of any figure: whither it be the likenes of male or female,
Deuteronomy 4:17	The likenes of any beast that is on earth, or the likenesse of any fethered foule that flieth in the aire:
Deuteronomy 4:18	Or the likenesse of any thing that creepeth on the earth, or the likenesse of any fish that is in the waters beneath the earth,
Deuteronomy 4:19	And lest thou lift vp thine eyes vnto heauen, and when thou seest the sunne and the moone and the starres with all the host of heauen, shouldest bee driuen to worship them and serue them, which the Lord thy God hath distributed to all people vnder the whole heauen.
Deuteronomy 4:20	But the Lord hath taken you and brought you out of the yron fornace: out of Egypt to be vnto him a people and inheritance, as appeareth this day.
Deuteronomy 4:21	And the Lord was angrie with me for your words, and sware that I should not goe ouer Iorden, and that I should not goe in vnto that good land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee for an inheritance.
Deuteronomy 4:22	For I must die in this land, and shall not go ouer Iorden: but ye shall goe ouer, and possesse that good land.
Deuteronomy 4:23	Take heede vnto your selues, least ye forget the couenant of the Lord your God which hee made with you, and least ye make you any grauen image, or likenes of any thing, as the Lord thy God hath charged thee.
Deuteronomy 4:24	For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire, and a ielous God.
Deuteronomy 4:25	When thou shalt beget children and childrens children, and shalt haue remained long in the land, if ye corrupt your selues, and make any grauen image, or likenes of any thing, and worke euill in the sight of the Lord thy God, to prouoke him to anger,
Deuteronomy 4:26	I call heauen and earth to record against you this day, that ye shall shortly perish from the land, whereunto ye goe ouer Iorden to possesse it: ye shall not prolong your dayes therein, but shall vtterly be destroyed.
Deuteronomy 4:27	And the Lord shall scatter you among the people, and ye shall be left few in nomber among the nations, whither the Lord shall bring you:
Deuteronomy 4:28	And there ye shall serue gods, euen ye worke of mans hand, wood, and stone, which neither see, nor heare, nor eate, nor smelll.
Deuteronomy 4:29	But if from thence thou shalt seeke the Lord thy God, thou shalt finde him, if thou seeke him with all thine heart, and with all thy soule.
Deuteronomy 4:30	When thou art in tribulation, and all these things are come vpon thee, at the length if thou returne to the Lord thy God, and bee obedient vnto his voyce,
Deuteronomy 4:31	(For the Lord thy God is a mercifull God) he will not forsake thee, neither destroy thee, nor forget the couenant of thy fathers, which hee sware vnto them.
Deuteronomy 4:32	For inquire now of the dayes that are past, which were before thee, since the day that God created man vpon the earth, and aske from the one ende of heauen vnto the other, if there came to passe such a great thing as this, or whether any such like thing hath bene heard.
Deuteronomy 4:33	Did euer people heare the voyce of God speaking out of the middes of a fire, as thou hast heard, and liued?
Deuteronomy 4:34	Or hath God assayed to go and take him a nation from among nations, by tentations, by signes, and by wonders, and by warre, and by a mightie hand, and by a stretched out arme, and by great feare, according vnto all that the Lord your God did vnto you in Egypt before your eyes?
Deuteronomy 4:35	Vnto thee it was shewed, that thou mightest knowe, that the Lord hee is God, and that there is none but he alone.
Deuteronomy 4:36	Out of heauen hee made thee heare his voyce to instruct thee, and vpon earth he shewed thee his great fire, and thou heardest his voyce out of the middes of the fire.
Deuteronomy 4:37	And because hee loued thy fathers, therefore hee chose their seede after them, and hath brought thee out of Egypt in his sight by his mightie power,
Deuteronomy 4:38	To thrust out nations greater and mightier then thou, before thee, to bring thee in, and to giue thee their land for inheritance: as appeareth this day.
Deuteronomy 4:39	Vnderstande therefore this day, and consider in thine heart, that the Lord, he is God in heauen aboue, and vpon the earth beneath: there is none other.
Deuteronomy 4:40	Thou shalt keepe therefore his ordinances, and his commandements which I commaund thee this day, that it may goe well with thee, and with thy children after thee, and that thou mayst prolong thy dayes vpon the earth, which the Lord thy God giueth thee for euer.
Deuteronomy 4:41	Then Moses separated three cities on this side of Iorden toward the sunne rising:
Deuteronomy 4:42	That the slayer should flee thither, which had killed his neighbour at vnwares, and hated him not in time past, might flee, I say, vnto one of those cities, and liue:
Deuteronomy 4:43	That is, Bezer in the wildernesse, in the plaine countrey of the Reubenites: and Ramoth in Gilead among the Gadites: and Golan in Bashan among them of Manasseh.
Deuteronomy 4:44	So this is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel.
Deuteronomy 4:45	These are the witnesses, and the ordinances, and the lawes which Moses declared to the children of Israel after they came out of Egypt,
Deuteronomy 4:46	On this side Iorden, in the valley ouer against Beth-peor, in the land of Sihon King of the Amorites, which dwelt at Heshbon, whom Moses and the children of Israel smote, after they were come out of Egypt:
Deuteronomy 4:47	And they possessed his land, and the lande of Og King of Bashan, two Kings of the Amorites, which were on this side Iorden towarde the sunne rising:
Deuteronomy 4:48	From Aroer, which is by the banke of the riuer Arnon, euen vnto mount Sion, which is Hermon,
Deuteronomy 4:49	And all the plaine by Iorden Eastwarde, euen vnto the Sea, of ye plaine, vnder the springs of Pisgah.
Deuteronomy 5:1	Then Moses called all Israiel, and saide vnto them, Heare, O Israel, the ordinances and the lawes which I propose to you this day, that yee may learne them, and take heede to obserue them.
Deuteronomy 5:2	The Lord our God made a couenant with vs in Horeb.
Deuteronomy 5:3	The Lord made not this couenant with our fathers onely, but with vs, euen with vs all here aliue this day.
Deuteronomy 5:4	The Lord talked with you face to face in the Mount, out of the middes of the fire.
Deuteronomy 5:5	(At that time I stoode betweene the Lord and you, to declare vnto you ye word of the Lord: for ye were afraid at the sight of the fire, and went not vp into the mount, and he said,
Deuteronomy 5:6	I am the Lord thy God, which haue brought thee out of the lande of Egypt, from the house of bondage.
Deuteronomy 5:7	Thou shalt haue none other gods before my face.
Deuteronomy 5:8	Thou shalt make thee no grauen image or any likenesse of that that is in heauen aboue, or which is in the earth beneath, or that is in the waters vnder the earth.
Deuteronomy 5:9	Thou shalt neither bowe thy selfe vnto them, nor serue them: for I the Lord thy God am a ielous God, visiting the iniquitie of the fathers vpon the children, euen vnto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me:
Deuteronomy 5:10	And shewing mercie vnto thousandes of them that loue me, and keepe my commandements.
Deuteronomy 5:11	Thou shalt not take the Name of the Lord thy God in vaine: for the Lord will not holde him giltlesse that taketh his Name in vaine.
Deuteronomy 5:12	Keepe the Sabbath day, to sanctifie it, as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee.
Deuteronomy 5:13	Sixe dayes thou shalt labour, and shalt doe all thy worke:
Deuteronomy 5:14	But the seuenth day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: thou shalt not doe any worke therein, thou, nor thy sonne, nor thy daughter, nor thy man seruant, nor thy mayd, nor thine oxe, nor thine asse, neither any of thy cattel, nor the stranger that is within thy gates: that thy man seruant and thy mayde may rest aswell as thou.
Deuteronomy 5:15	For, remember that thou wast a seruant in the land of Egypt, and that the Lord thy God brought thee out thence by a mightie hand and a stretched out arme: therefore the Lord thy God commanded thee to obserue the Sabbath day.
Deuteronomy 5:16	Honour thy father and thy mother, as the Lord thy God hath comanded thee, that thy dayes may be prolonged, and that it may go well with thee vpon the land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee.
Deuteronomy 5:17	Thou shalt not kill.
Deuteronomy 5:18	Neither shalt thou commit adulterie.
Deuteronomy 5:19	Neither shalt thou steale.
Deuteronomy 5:20	Neither shalt thou beare false witnesse against thy neighbour.
Deuteronomy 5:21	Neither shalt thou couet thy neighbours wife, neither shalt thou desire thy neighbours house, his fielde, nor his man seruant, nor his mayd, his oxe, nor his asse, nor ought that thy neighbour hath.
Deuteronomy 5:22	These wordes the Lord spake vnto all your multitude in the mount out of the mids of the fire, the cloude and the darkenes, with a great voyce, and added no more thereto: and wrote them vpon two tables of stone, and deliuered them vnto me.
Deuteronomy 5:23	And when ye heard the voyce out of the middes of the darkenes, (for the mountaine did burne with fire) then ye came to me, all the chiefe of your tribes, and your Elders:
Deuteronomy 5:24	And ye sayd, Beholde, the Lord our God hath shewed vs his glory and his greatnes, and we haue heard his voyce out of the middes of the fire: we haue seene this day that God doeth talke with man, and he liueth.
Deuteronomy 5:25	Now therefore, why should we dye? for this great fire wil consume vs: if we heare ye voyce of the Lord our God any more, we shall dye.
Deuteronomy 5:26	For what flesh was there euer, that heard the voyce of the liuing God speaking out of the middes of the fire as we haue, and liued?
Deuteronomy 5:27	Go thou neere and heare all that the Lord our God saith: and declare thou vnto vs all that the Lord our God saith vnto thee, and we will heare it, and doe it.
Deuteronomy 5:28	Then the Lord heard the voyce of your wordes, when ye spake vnto me: and the Lord sayd vnto me, I haue heard the voyce of ye wordes of this people, which they haue spoken vnto thee: they haue well sayd, all that they haue spoken.
Deuteronomy 5:29	Oh that there were such an heart in them to feare me, and to keepe all my commandements alway: that it might go well with them, and with their children for euer.
Deuteronomy 5:30	Go, say vnto them, Returne you into your tentes.
Deuteronomy 5:31	But stand thou here with me, and I wil tell thee all the commandements, and the ordinances, and the lawes, which thou shalt teach them: that they may doe them in the land which I giue them to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 5:32	Take heede therefore, that ye doe as the Lord your God hath commanded you: turne not aside to the right hand nor to the left,
Deuteronomy 5:33	But walke in all the wayes which the Lord your God hath commanded you, that ye may liue, and that it may goe well with you: and that ye may prolong your dayes in the land which ye shall possesse.
Deuteronomy 6:1	These now are the commandements, ordinances, and lawes, which the Lord your God commanded me to teach you, that ye might doe them in the land whither ye go to possesse it:
Deuteronomy 6:2	That thou mightest feare the Lord thy God, and keepe all his ordinances, and his commandements which I commaund thee, thou, and thy sonne, and thy sonnes sonne all the dayes of thy life, euen that thy dayes may be prolonged.
Deuteronomy 6:3	Heare therefore, O Israel, and take heede to doe it, that it may go well with thee, and that ye may increase mightily in the land that floweth with milke and hony, as the Lord God of thy fathers hath promised thee.
Deuteronomy 6:4	Heare, O Israel, The Lord our God is Lord onely,
Deuteronomy 6:5	And thou shalt loue the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soule, and with all thy might.
Deuteronomy 6:6	And these wordes which I commaund thee this day, shalbe in thine heart.
Deuteronomy 6:7	And thou shalt rehearse them continually vnto thy children, and shalt talke of them when thou tariest in thine house, and as thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest downe, and when thou risest vp:
Deuteronomy 6:8	And thou shalt binde them for a signe vpon thine hand, and they shalbe as frontlets betweene thine eyes.
Deuteronomy 6:9	Also thou shalt write them vpon ye postes of thine house, and vpon thy gates.
Deuteronomy 6:10	And when the Lord thy God hath brought thee into the land, which he sware vnto thy fathers, Abraham, Izhak, and Iaakob, to giue to thee, with great and goodly cities which thou buildedst not,
Deuteronomy 6:11	And houses full of all maner of goods which thou filledst not, and welles digged which thou diggedst not, vineyards and oliue trees which thou plantedst not, and when thou hast eaten and art full,
Deuteronomy 6:12	Beware least thou forget the Lord, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.
Deuteronomy 6:13	Thou shalt feare the Lord thy God, and serue him, and shalt sweare by his Name.
Deuteronomy 6:14	Ye shall not walke after other gods, after any of the gods of the people which are round about you,
Deuteronomy 6:15	(For the Lord thy God is a ielous God among you:) least the wrath of the Lord thy God be kindled against thee, and destroy thee from the face of the earth.
Deuteronomy 6:16	Ye shall not tempt the Lord your God, as ye did tempt him in Massah:
Deuteronomy 6:17	But ye shall keepe diligently the commandements of the Lord your God, and his testimonies, and his ordinances which he hath commanded thee,
Deuteronomy 6:18	And thou shalt doe that which is right and good in the sight of the Lord: that thou mayest prosper, and that thou mayest go in, and possesse that good land which the Lord sware vnto thy fathers,
Deuteronomy 6:19	To cast out all thine enemies before thee, as the Lord hath sayd.
Deuteronomy 6:20	When thy sonne shall aske thee in time to come, saying, What meane these testimonies, and ordinances, and Lawes, which the Lord our God hath commanded you?
Deuteronomy 6:21	Then shalt thou say vnto thy sonne, We were Pharaohs bondmen in Egypt: but the Lord brought vs out of Egypt with a mightie hand.
Deuteronomy 6:22	And the Lord shewed signes and wonders great and euill vpon Egypt, vpon Pharaoh, and vpon all his housholde, before our eyes,
Deuteronomy 6:23	And brought vs out from thence, to bring vs in, and to giue vs the land which he sware vnto our fathers.
Deuteronomy 6:24	Therefore the Lord hath commanded vs, to doe all these ordinances, and to feare the Lord our God, that it may goe euer well with vs, and that he may preserue vs aliue as at this present.
Deuteronomy 6:25	Moreouer, this shall be our righteousnes before the Lord our God, if we take heede to keepe all these commandements, as he hath commanded vs.
Deuteronomy 7:1	When the Lord thy God shall bring thee into the land whither thou goest to possesse it, and shall roote out many nations before thee: the Hittites, and the Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, and the Hiuites, and the Iebusites, seuen nations greater and mightier then thou,
Deuteronomy 7:2	And the Lord thy God shall giue them before thee, then thou shalt smite them: thou shalt vtterly destroy them: thou shalt make no couenant with them, nor haue compassion on them,
Deuteronomy 7:3	Neither shalt thou make marriages with them, neither giue thy daughter vnto his sonne, nor take his daughter vnto thy sonne.
Deuteronomy 7:4	For they wil cause thy sonne to turne away from me, and to serue other gods: then will the wrath of the Lord waxe hote against you and destroy thee suddenly.
Deuteronomy 7:5	But thus ye shall deale with them, Ye shall ouerthrowe their altars, and breake downe their pillars, and ye shall cut downe their groues, and burne their grauen images with fire.
Deuteronomy 7:6	For thou art an holy people vnto the Lord thy God, the Lord thy God hath chosen thee, to be a precious people vnto himselfe, aboue all people that are vpon the earth.
Deuteronomy 7:7	The Lord did not set his loue vpon you, nor chose you, because ye were more in number then any people: for ye were the fewest of all people:
Deuteronomy 7:8	But because the Lord loued you, and because hee would keepe the othe which hee had sworne vnto your fathers, the Lord hath brought you out by a mightie hand, and deliuered you out of the house of bondage from the hand of Pharaoh King of Egypt,
Deuteronomy 7:9	That thou mayest knowe, that the Lord thy God, he is God, the faithfull God which keepeth couenant and mercie vnto them that loue him and keepe his commandements, euen to a thousand generations,
Deuteronomy 7:10	And rewardeth them to their face that hate him, to bring them to destruction: he wil not deferre to reward him that hateth him, to his face.
Deuteronomy 7:11	Keepe thou therefore the commandements, and the ordinances, and the lawes, which I commaund thee this day to doe them.
Deuteronomy 7:12	For if ye hearken vnto these lawes, and obserue and doe them, then the Lord thy God shall keepe with thee the couenant, and the mercie which he sware vnto thy fathers.
Deuteronomy 7:13	And he wil loue thee, and blesse thee, and multiplie thee: he will also blesse the fruite of thy wombe, and the fruite of thy land, thy corne and thy wine, and thine oyle and the increase of thy kine, and the flockes of thy sheepe in the land, which he sware vnto thy fathers to giue thee.
Deuteronomy 7:14	Thou shalt be blessed aboue all people: there shall be neither male nor female barren among you, nor among your cattell.
Deuteronomy 7:15	Moreouer, the Lord will take away from thee all infirmities, and will put none of the euill diseases of Egypt (which thou knowest) vpon thee, but wil send them vpon all that hate thee.
Deuteronomy 7:16	Thou shalt therefore consume all people which the Lord thy God shall giue thee: thine eye shall not spare them, neither shalt thou serue their gods, for that shalbe thy destruction.
Deuteronomy 7:17	If thou say in thine heart, These nations are moe then I, how can I cast them out?
Deuteronomy 7:18	Thou shalt not feare them, but remember what the Lord thy God did vnto Pharaoh, and vnto all Egypt:
Deuteronomy 7:19	The great tentations which thine eyes sawe, and the signes and wonders, and the mighty hand and stretched out arme, whereby the Lord thy God brought thee out: so shall the Lord thy God do vnto all ye people, whose face thou fearest.
Deuteronomy 7:20	Moreouer, the Lord thy God will send hornets among them vntil they that are left, and hide themselues from thee, be destroyed.
Deuteronomy 7:21	Thou shalt not feare them: for the Lord thy God is among you, a God mightie and dreadful.
Deuteronomy 7:22	And the Lord thy God wil roote out these nations before thee by little and little: thou mayest not consume them at once, least the beasts of the fielde increase vpon thee.
Deuteronomy 7:23	But the Lord thy God shall giue them before thee, and shall destroy them with a mightie destruction, vntill they be brought to naught.
Deuteronomy 7:24	And he shall deliuer their Kings into thine hand, and thou shalt destroy their name from vnder heauen: there shall no man be able to stand before thee, vntill thou hast destroyed them.
Deuteronomy 7:25	The grauen images of their gods shall ye burne with fire, and couet not the siluer and golde, that is on them, nor take it vnto thee, least thou be snared therewith: for it is an abomination before the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 7:26	Bring not therefore abomination into thine house, lest, thou be accursed like it, but vtterly abhorre it, and count it most abominable: for it is accursed.
Deuteronomy 8:1	Ye shall keepe all the commandements which I command thee this day, for to doe them: that ye may liue, and be multiplied, and goe in, and possesse the land which the Lord sware vnto your fathers.
Deuteronomy 8:2	And thou shalt remember all ye way which the Lord thy God led thee this fourtie yeere in the wildernesse, for to humble thee and to proue thee, to knowe what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keepe his commandements or no.
Deuteronomy 8:3	Therefore he humbled thee, and made thee hungry, and fed thee with MAN, which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know it, that he might teache thee that man liueth not by bread onely, but by euery worde that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord, doth a man liue.
Deuteronomy 8:4	Thy raiment waxed not olde vpon thee, neither did thy foote swell those fourtie yeeres.
Deuteronomy 8:5	Knowe therefore in thine heart, that as a man nourtereth his sonne, so the Lord thy God nourtereth thee.
Deuteronomy 8:6	Therefore shalt thou keepe the commandements of the Lord thy God, that thou mayest walke in his wayes, and feare him.
Deuteronomy 8:7	For the Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land in the which are riuers of water and fountaines, and depthes that spring out of valleis and mountaines:
Deuteronomy 8:8	A land of wheate and barley, and of vineyards, and figtrees, and pomegranates: a land of oyle oliue and hony:
Deuteronomy 8:9	A land wherein thou shalt eate bread without scarcitie, neither shalt thou lacke any thing therein: a land whose stones are yron, and out of whose mountaines thou shalt digge brasse.
Deuteronomy 8:10	And when thou hast eaten and filled thy selfe, thou shalt blesse the Lord thy God for the good land, which he hath giuen thee.
Deuteronomy 8:11	Beware that thou forget not the Lord thy God, not keeping his commandements, and his lawes, and his ordinances, which I commaund thee this day:
Deuteronomy 8:12	Lest when thou hast eaten and filled thy selfe, and hast built goodly houses and dwelt therein,
Deuteronomy 8:13	And thy beastes, and thy sheepe are increased, and thy siluer and golde is multiplied, and all that thou hast is increased,
Deuteronomy 8:14	Then thine heart be lifted vp and thou forget the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage,
Deuteronomy 8:15	Who was thy guide in the great and terrible wildernes (wherein were fierie serpents, and scorpions, and drought, where was no water, who brought forth water for thee out of ye rock of flint:
Deuteronomy 8:16	Who fed thee in the wildernesse with MAN, which thy fathers knewe not) to humble thee, and and to proue thee, that he might doe thee good at thy latter ende.
Deuteronomy 8:17	Beware least thou say in thine heart, My power, and the strength of mine owne hand hath prepared me this abundance.
Deuteronomy 8:18	But remember the Lord thy God: for it is he which giueth thee power to get substance to establish his couenant which he sware vnto thy fathers, as appeareth this day.
Deuteronomy 8:19	And if thou forget the Lord thy God, and walke after other gods, and serue them, and worship them, I testifie vnto you this day that ye shall surely perish.
Deuteronomy 8:20	As the nations which the Lord destroyeth before you, so ye shall perish, because ye woulde not be obedient vnto the voyce of the Lord your God.
Deuteronomy 9:1	Heare O Israel, Thou shalt passe ouer Iorden this day, to goe in and to possesse nations greater and mightier then thy selfe, and cities great and walled vp to heauen,
Deuteronomy 9:2	A people great and tall, euen the children of the Anakims, whom thou knowest, and of whom thou hast heard say, Who can stand before the children of Anak?
Deuteronomy 9:3	Vnderstand therefore that this day ye Lord thy God is he which goeth ouer before thee as a consuming fire: he shall destroy them, and he shall bring them downe before thy face: so thou shalt cast them out and destroy them suddenly, as the Lord hath said vnto thee.
Deuteronomy 9:4	Speake not thou in thine heart (after that the Lord thy God hath cast them out before thee) saying, For my righteousnesse the Lord hath brought me in, to possesse this land: but for the wickednesse of these nations the Lord hath cast them out before thee.
Deuteronomy 9:5	For thou entrest not to inherite their lande for thy righteousnesse, or for thy vpright heart: but for the wickednesse of those nations, the Lord thy God doth cast them out before thee, and that he might performe the worde which the Lord thy God sware vnto thy fathers, Abraham, Izhak, and Iacob.
Deuteronomy 9:6	Vnderstand therefore, that ye Lord thy God giueth thee not this good land to possesse it for thy righteousnes: for thou art a stifnecked people.
Deuteronomy 9:7	Remember, and forget not, howe thou prouokedst the Lord thy God to anger in the wildernesse: since the day that thou diddest depart out of the land of Egypt, vntill ye came vnto this place ye haue rebelled against the Lord.
Deuteronomy 9:8	Also in Horeb ye prouoked the Lord to anger so that the Lord was wroth with you, euen to destroy you.
Deuteronomy 9:9	When I was gone vp into the mount, to receiue the tables of stone, the tables, I say, of the couenant, which the Lord made with you: and I abode in the mount fourtie daies and fourtie nights, and I neither ate bread nor yet dranke water:
Deuteronomy 9:10	Then the Lord deliuered me two tables of stone, written with the finger of God, and in them was conteyned according to all the wordes which the Lord had said vnto you in the mount out of the middes of the fire, in the day of the assemblie.
Deuteronomy 9:11	And when the fourtie dayes and fourtie nightes were ended, the Lord gaue me the two tables of stone, the tables, I say, of the couenant.
Deuteronomy 9:12	And the Lord said vnto me, Arise, get thee downe quickly from hence: for thy people which thou hast brought out of Egypt, haue corrupt their wayes: they are soone turned out of the way, which I commanded them: they haue made them a molten image.
Deuteronomy 9:13	Furthermore, the Lord spake vnto me, saying, I haue seene this people, and beholde, it is a stifnecked people.
Deuteronomy 9:14	Let me alone, that I may destroy them, and put out their name from vnder heaue, and I wil make of thee a mightie nation, and greater then they be.
Deuteronomy 9:15	So I returned, and came downe from the Mount (and the Mount burnt with fire, and ye two Tables of the couenant were in my two handes)
Deuteronomy 9:16	Then I looked, and beholde, ye had sinned against the Lord your God: for ye had made you a molten calfe, and had turned quickly out of the way which the Lord had commanded you.
Deuteronomy 9:17	Therefore I tooke the two Tables, and cast them out of my two handes, and brake them before your eyes.
Deuteronomy 9:18	And I fell downe before the Lord, fourtie dayes, and fourtie nightes, as before: I neither ate bread nor dranke water, because of al your sinnes, which ye had committed, in doing wickedly in the sight of the Lord, in that ye prouoked him vnto wrath.
Deuteronomy 9:19	(For I was afraide of the wrath and indignation, wherewith the Lord was mooued against you, euen to destroy you) yet the Lord heard me at that time also.
Deuteronomy 9:20	Likewise ye Lord was very angrie with Aaron, euen to destroy him: but at that time I prayed also for Aaron.
Deuteronomy 9:21	And I tooke your sinne, I meane the calfe which ye had made, and burnt him with fire, and stamped him and ground him small, euen vnto very dust: and I cast the dust thereof into the riuer, that descended out of the mount.
Deuteronomy 9:22	Also in Taberah, and in Massah and in Kibrothhattaauah ye prouoked ye Lord to anger.
Deuteronomy 9:23	Likewise when the Lord sent you from Kadesh-barnea, saying, Goe vp, and possesse the land which I haue giuen you, then ye rebelled against the commandement of the Lord your God, and beleeued him not, nor hearkened vnto his voyce.
Deuteronomy 9:24	Ye haue bene rebellious vnto the Lord, since the day that I knewe you.
Deuteronomy 9:25	Then I fell downe before ye Lord fourtie dayes and fourtie nightes, as I fell downe before, because ye Lord had said, that he woulde destroy you.
Deuteronomy 9:26	And I prayed vnto the Lord, and saide, O Lord God, destroy not thy people and thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed through thy greatnesse, whom thou hast brought out of Egypt by a mightie hand.
Deuteronomy 9:27	Remember thy seruants Abraham, Izhak, and Iaakob: looke not to ye stubburnes of this people, nor to their wickednes, nor to their sinne,
Deuteronomy 9:28	Lest the countrey, whence thou broughtest them, say, Because ye Lord was not able to bring them into the land which he promised them, or because he hated them, he caried them out, to slay them in the wildernesse.
Deuteronomy 9:29	Yet they are thy people, and thine inheritance, which thou broughtest out by thy mightie power, and by thy stretched out arme.
Deuteronomy 10:1	In the same time the Lord said vnto me, Hewe thee two Tables of stone like vnto the first, and come vp vnto me into the Mount, and make thee an Arke of wood,
Deuteronomy 10:2	And I will write vpon the Tables ye wordes that were vpon the first Tables, which thou brakest, and thou shalt put them in the Arke.
Deuteronomy 10:3	And I made an Arke of Shittim wood, and hewed two Tables of stone like vnto the first, and went vp into the Mountaine, and the two Tables in mine hand.
Deuteronomy 10:4	Then he wrote vpon the Tables according to the first writing (the tenne commandements, which the Lord spake vnto you in the Mount out of the middes of the fire, in the day of the assemblie) and the Lord gaue them vnto me.
Deuteronomy 10:5	And I departed, and came downe from the Mount, and put the Tables in the Arke which I had made: and there they be, as the Lord commanded me.
Deuteronomy 10:6	And ye children of Israel tooke their iourney from Beeroth of the children of Iaakan to Mosera, where Aaron dyed, and was buried, and Eleazar his sonne became Priest in his steade.
Deuteronomy 10:7	From thence they departed vnto Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Iotbath a land of running waters.
Deuteronomy 10:8	The same time ye Lord separated the tribe of Leui to beare the Arke of the couenant of the Lord, and to stand before ye Lord, to minister vnto him, and to blesse in his Name vnto this day.
Deuteronomy 10:9	Wherefore Leui hath no part nor inheritance with his brethren: for the Lord is his inheritance, as the Lord thy God hath promised him.
Deuteronomy 10:10	And I taried in the mount, as at ye first time, fourtie dayes and fourtie nightes, and the Lord heard me at that time also, and the Lord would not destroy thee.
Deuteronomy 10:11	But the Lord said vnto me, Arise, goe forth in the iourney before the people, that they may goe in and possesse the land, which I sware vnto their fathers to giue vnto them.
Deuteronomy 10:12	And nowe, Israel, what doth the Lord thy God require of thee, but to feare the Lord thy God, to walke in all his wayes, and to loue him, and to serue the Lord thy God, with all thine heart, and with all thy soule?
Deuteronomy 10:13	That thou keepe the commandements of the Lord, and his ordinances, which I commaund thee this day, for thy wealth?
Deuteronomy 10:14	Beholde, heauen, and the heauen of heauens is the Lords thy God, and the earth, with all that therein is.
Deuteronomy 10:15	Notwithstanding, the Lord set his delite in thy fathers to loue them, and did choose their seede after them, euen you aboue all people, as appeareth this day.
Deuteronomy 10:16	Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and harden your neckes no more.
Deuteronomy 10:17	For the Lord your God is God of gods, and Lord of lordes, a great God, mightie and terrible, which accepteth no persons nor taketh reward:
Deuteronomy 10:18	Who doeth right vnto the fatherlesse and widowe, and loueth the stranger, giuing him foode and rayment.
Deuteronomy 10:19	Loue ye therefore the stranger: for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.
Deuteronomy 10:20	Thou shalt feare the Lord thy God: thou shalt serue him, and thou shalt cleaue vnto him, and shalt sweare by his Name.
Deuteronomy 10:21	He is thy praise, and hee is thy God, that hath done for thee these great and terrible things, which thine eyes haue seene.
Deuteronomy 10:22	Thy fathers went downe into Egypt with seuentie persons, and now the Lord thy God hath made thee, as ye starres of ye heauen in multitude.
Deuteronomy 11:1	Therefore thou shalt loue the Lord thy God, and shalt keepe that, which he commandeth to be kept: that is, his ordinances, and his lawes, and his commandements alway.
Deuteronomy 11:2	And consider this day (for I speake not to your children, which haue neither knowen nor seene) the chastisement of the Lord your God, his greatnesse, his mighty hande, and his stretched out arme,
Deuteronomy 11:3	And his signes, and his actes, which hee did in the middes of Egypt vnto Pharaoh the King of Egypt and vnto all his land:
Deuteronomy 11:4	And what he did vnto the hoste of the Egyptians, vnto their horses, and to their charets, when he caused the waters of the red Sea to ouerflowe them, as they pursued after you, and the Lord destroied them vnto this day:
Deuteronomy 11:5	And what he did vnto you in the wildernesse, vntill yee came vnto this place:
Deuteronomy 11:6	And what he did vnto Dathan and Abiram the sonnes of Eliab ye sonne of Reuben, when the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them with their housholds and their tents, and all their substance that they had in the middes of al Israel.
Deuteronomy 11:7	For your eyes haue seene all the great actes of the Lord which he did.
Deuteronomy 11:8	Therefore shall ye keepe all the commandements, which I commaund you this day, that ye may be strong, and go in and possesse the land whither ye goe to possesse it:
Deuteronomy 11:9	Also that ye may prolong your daies in the land, which the Lord sware vnto your fathers, to giue vnto them and to their seede, euen a lande that floweth with milke and honie.
Deuteronomy 11:10	For the land whither thou goest to possesse it, is not as the lande of Egypt, from whence ye came, where thou sowedst thy seede, and wateredst it with thy feete as a garden of herbes:
Deuteronomy 11:11	But the land whither ye goe to possesse it, is a land of mountaines and valleis, and drinketh water of the raine of heauen.
Deuteronomy 11:12	This land doth the Lord thy God care for: the eies of the Lord thy God are alwaies vpon it, from the beginning of the yeere, euen vnto the ende of the yeere.
Deuteronomy 11:13	If yee shall hearken therefore vnto my commandements, which I commaund you this day, that yee loue the Lord your God and serue him with all your heart, and with all your soule,
Deuteronomy 11:14	I also wil giue raine vnto your land in due time, the first raine and the latter, that thou maist gather in thy wheat, and thy wine, and thine oyle.
Deuteronomy 11:15	Also I will send grasse in thy fieldes, for thy cattel, that thou maist eate, and haue inough.
Deuteronomy 11:16	But beware lest your heart deceiue you, and lest yee turne aside, and serue other gods, and worship them,
Deuteronomy 11:17	And so the anger of the Lord be kindled against you, and he shut vp the heauen, that there be no raine, and that your lande yeelde not her fruit, and yee perish quickly from the good land, which the Lord giueth you.
Deuteronomy 11:18	Therefore shall ye lay vp these my words in your heart and in your soule, and binde them for a signe vpon your hand, that they may be as a frontlet betweene your eyes,
Deuteronomy 11:19	And ye shall teach them your children, speaking of them, whe thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest downe, and when thou risest vp.
Deuteronomy 11:20	And thou shalt write them vpon the postes of thine house, and vpon thy gates,
Deuteronomy 11:21	That your daies may be multiplied, and the daies of your children, in ye land which the Lord sware vnto your fathers to giue them, as long as the heauens are aboue the earth.
Deuteronomy 11:22	For if ye keepe diligently all these commandements, which I command you to doe: that is, to loue the Lord your God, to walke in all his waies, and to cleaue vnto him,
Deuteronomy 11:23	Then will the Lord cast out all these nations before you, and ye shall possesse great nations and mightier then you.
Deuteronomy 11:24	All the places whereon the soles of your feete shall tread, shalbe yours: your coast shalbe from the wildernes and from Lebanon, and from the Riuer, euen the riuer Perath, vnto ye vttermost Sea.
Deuteronomy 11:25	No man shall stande against you: for the Lord your God shall cast the feare and dread of you vpon all the land that ye shall treade vpon, as he hath said vnto you.
Deuteronomy 11:26	Beholde, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse:
Deuteronomy 11:27	The blessing, if ye obey the commandements of the Lord your God which I command you this day:
Deuteronomy 11:28	And ye curse, if ye wil not obey the commandements of the Lord your God, but turne out of the way, which I commande you this day, to go after other gods, which ye haue not knowen.
Deuteronomy 11:29	When the Lord thy God therefore hath brought thee into ye lande, whither thou goest to possesse it, then thou shalt put the blessing vpon mount Gerizim, and the curse vpon mount Ebal.
Deuteronomy 11:30	Are they not beyond Iorden on that part, where the sunne goeth downe in the land of the Canaanites, which dwel in the plaine ouer against Gilgal, beside the groue of Moreh?
Deuteronomy 11:31	For yee shall passe ouer Iorden, to goe in to possesse the land, which ye Lord your God giueth you, and ye shall possesse it, and dwell therein.
Deuteronomy 11:32	Take heede therefore that ye doe all the commandements and the lawes, which I set before you this day.
Deuteronomy 12:1	These are the ordinances and the lawes, which ye shall obserue and doe in the lande (which the Lord God of thy fathers giueth thee to possesse it) as long as yee liue vpon the earth.
Deuteronomy 12:2	Yee shall vtterly destroy all the places wherein the nations which ye shall possesse, serued their gods vpon the hie mountaines and vpon the hilles, and vnder euery greene tree.
Deuteronomy 12:3	Also ye shall ouerthrowe their altars, and breake downe their pillars, and burne their groues with fire: and ye shall hew downe ye grauen images of their gods, and abolish their names out of that place.
Deuteronomy 12:4	Ye shall not do so vnto ye Lord your God,
Deuteronomy 12:5	But ye shall seeke the place which the Lord your God shall chose out of all your tribes, to put his Name there, and there to dwell, and thither thou shalt come,
Deuteronomy 12:6	And ye shall bring thither your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and the offring of your hands, and your vowes, and your free offrings, and the first borne of your kine and of your sheepe.
Deuteronomy 12:7	And there ye shall eate before the Lord your God, and ye shall reioyce in all that yee put your hand vnto, both ye, and your housholdes, because the Lord thy God hath blessed thee.
Deuteronomy 12:8	Ye shall not doe after all these things that we doe here this day: that is, euery man whatsoeuer seemeth him good in his owne eyes.
Deuteronomy 12:9	For ye are not yet come to rest, and to the inheritance which the Lord thy God giueth thee.
Deuteronomy 12:10	But when ye goe ouer Iorden, and dwell in ye land, which the Lord your God hath giuen you to inherit, and when he hath giue you rest from al your enemies round about, and yee dwel in safetie,
Deuteronomy 12:11	When there shalbe a place which the Lord your God shall chose, to cause his name to dwell there, thither shall yee bring all that I commaund you: your burnt offrings, and your sacrifices, your tithes, and the offring of your hands, and all your speciall vowes which ye vowe vnto the Lord:
Deuteronomy 12:12	And ye shall reioyce before the Lord your God, yee, and your sonnes and your daughters, and your seruaunts, and your maidens, and the Leuite that is within your gates: for hee hath no part nor inheritance with you.
Deuteronomy 12:13	Take heede that thou offer not thy burnt offrings in euery place that thou seest:
Deuteronomy 12:14	But in ye place which the Lord shall chose in one of thy tribes, there thou shalt offer thy burnt offrings, and there thou shalt doe all that I commaund thee.
Deuteronomy 12:15	Notwithstanding thou maiest kill and eate flesh in all thy gates, whatsoeuer thine heart desireth, according to the blessing of the Lord thy God which he hath giuen thee: both the vncleane and the cleane may eate thereof, as of the roe bucke, and of the hart.
Deuteronomy 12:16	Onely ye shall not eat the blood, but powre it vpon the earth as water.
Deuteronomy 12:17	Thou maist nor eat within thy gates the tithe of thy corne, nor of thy wine, nor of thine oyle, nor the first borne of thy kine, nor of thy sheep, neither any of thy vowes which thou vowest, nor thy free offerings, nor the offering of thine hands,
Deuteronomy 12:18	But thou shalt eate it before the Lord thy God, in the place which the Lord thy God shall chuse, thou, and thy sonne, and thy daughter, and thy seruat, and thy maid, and the Leuite that is within thy gates: and thou shalt reioyce before the Lord thy God, in all that thou puttest thine hand to.
Deuteronomy 12:19	Beware, that thou forsake not the Leuite, as long as thou liuest vpon the earth.
Deuteronomy 12:20	When the Lord thy God shall enlarge thy border, as hee hath promised thee, and thou shalt say, I wil eate flesh, (because thine heart longeth to eate flesh) thou maiest eate flesh, whatsoeuer thine heart desireth.
Deuteronomy 12:21	If the place which the Lord thy God hath chosen to put his Name there, be farre from thee, then thou shalt kill of thy bullockes, and of thy sheepe which the Lord hath giuen thee, as I haue commanded thee, and thou shalt eat in thy gates, whatsoeuer thine heart desireth.
Deuteronomy 12:22	Euen as the roe bucke, and the hart is eaten, so shalt thou eat them. both the vncleane and the cleane shall eate of them alike.
Deuteronomy 12:23	Onely bee sure that thou eate not the blood: for the blood is the life, and thou maiest not eate the life with the flesh.
Deuteronomy 12:24	Therefore thou shalt not eat it, but powre it vpon the earth as water.
Deuteronomy 12:25	Thou shalt not eat it, that it may go well with thee; and with thy children after thee, when thou shalt doe that which is right in the sight of the Lord:
Deuteronomy 12:26	But thine holy things which thou hast, and thy vowes thou shalt take vp, and come vnto the place which the Lord shall chuse.
Deuteronomy 12:27	And thou shalt make thy burnt offerings of the flesh, and of the blood vpon the altar of the Lord thy God, and the blood of thine offerings shall bee powred vpon the altar of the Lord thy God, and thou shalt eate the flesh.
Deuteronomy 12:28	Take heede, and heare all these woordes which I commaund thee, that it may goe well with thee, and with thy children after thee for euer, when thou doest that which is good and right in the sight of the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 12:29	When the Lord thy God shall destroy the nations before thee, whither thou goest to possesse them, and thou shalt possesse them and dwell in their lande,
Deuteronomy 12:30	Beware, lest thou be taken in a snare after them, after that they be destroied before thee, and lest thou aske after their gods, saying, Howe did these nations serue their gods, that I may doe so likewise?
Deuteronomy 12:31	Thou shalt not doe so vnto the Lord thy God: for al abomination, which the Lord hateth, haue they done vnto their gods: for they haue burned both their sonnes and their daughters with fire to their gods.
Deuteronomy 12:32	Therefore whatsoeuer I command you, take heede you doe it: thou shalt put nothing thereto, nor take ought therefrom.
Deuteronomy 13:1	If there arise amog you a prophet or a dreamer of dreames, (and giue thee a signe or wonder,
Deuteronomy 13:2	And the signe and the wonder, which hee hath tolde thee, come to passe) saying, Let vs go after other gods, which thou hast not knowen, and let vs serue them,
Deuteronomy 13:3	Thou shalt not hearken vnto the wordes of the prophet, or vnto that dreamer of dreames: for the Lord your God prooueth you, to knowe whether ye loue the Lord your God with al your heart, and with all your soule.
Deuteronomy 13:4	Yee shall walke after the Lord your God and feare him, and shall keepe his commandements, and hearken vnto his voyce, and yee shall serue him, and cleaue vnto him.
Deuteronomy 13:5	But that prophet, or that dreamer of dreames, he shall be slaine, because hee hath spoken to turne you away from the Lord your God (which brought you out of the lande of Egypt, and deliuered you out of the house of bodage) to thrust thee out of the way, wherein the Lord thy God commanded thee to walke: so shalt thou take the euill away foorth of the middes of thee.
Deuteronomy 13:6	If thy brother, the sonne of thy mother, or thine owne sonne, or thy daughter, or the wife, that lyeth in thy bosome, or thy friend, which is as thine owne soule, intice thee secretly, saying, Let vs goe and serue other gods, (which thou hast not knowen, thou, I say, nor thy fathers)
Deuteronomy 13:7	Any of the gods of the people which are round about you, neere vnto thee or farre off from thee, from the one ende of the earth vnto ye other:
Deuteronomy 13:8	Thou shalt not cosent vnto him, nor heare him, neither shall thine eye pitie him, nor shewe mercie, nor keepe him secret:
Deuteronomy 13:9	But thou shalt euen kill him: thine hand shall be first vpon him to put him to death, and then the handes of all the people.
Deuteronomy 13:10	And thou shalt stone him with stones, that he dye (because he hath gone about to thrust thee away from the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of ye land of Egypt, from ye house of bondage)
Deuteronomy 13:11	That all Israel may heare and feare, and doe no more any such wickednesse as this among you.
Deuteronomy 13:12	If thou shalt heare say (concerning any of thy cities which the Lord thy God hath giuen thee to dwell in)
Deuteronomy 13:13	Wicked men are gone out from among you, and haue drawen away the inhabitants of their citie, saying, Let vs go and serue other gods, which ye haue not knowen,
Deuteronomy 13:14	Then thou shalt seeke, and make searche and enquire diligently: and if it be true, and the thing certaine, that such abomination is wrought among you,
Deuteronomy 13:15	Thou shalt euen slay the inhabitants of that citie with the edge of the sworde: destroy it vtterly, and all that is therein, and the cattel thereof with the edge of the sworde.
Deuteronomy 13:16	And thou shalt gather all the spoyle of it into the middes of the streete thereof, and burne with fire the citie and all the spoyle thereof euery whit, vnto the Lord thy God: and it shall be an heape for euer: it shall not be built againe.
Deuteronomy 13:17	And there shall cleaue nothing of ye damned thing to thine hand, that the Lord may turne from the fiercenes of his wrath, and shewe thee mercie, and haue compassion on thee and multiplie thee, as he hath sworne vnto thy fathers:
Deuteronomy 13:18	When thou shalt obey the voyce of the Lord thy God, and keepe all his commandements which I command thee this day, that thou do that which is right in the eyes of the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 14:1	Ye are the children of the Lord your God. Ye shall not cut yourselues, nor make you any baldnesse betweene your eyes for the dead.
Deuteronomy 14:2	For thou art an holy people vnto ye Lord thy God, and the Lord hath chosen thee to be a precious people vnto himselfe, aboue all the people that are vpon the earth.
Deuteronomy 14:3	Thou shalt eate no maner of abomination.
Deuteronomy 14:4	These are the beastes, which ye shall eate, the beefe, the sheepe, and the goate,
Deuteronomy 14:5	The hart, and the roe buck, and the bugle, and the wilde goate, and the vnicorne, and the wilde oxe, and the chamois.
Deuteronomy 14:6	And euery beast that parteth ye hoofe, and cleaueth the clift into two clawes, and is of the beasts that cheweth the cudde, that shall ye eate.
Deuteronomy 14:7	But these ye shall not eate, of them that chew the cud, and of them that deuide and cleaue the hoofe onely: ye camell, nor the hare, nor the cony: for they chewe the cudde, but deuide not ye hoofe: therefore they shall be vncleane vnto you:
Deuteronomy 14:8	Also the swine, because he deuideth the hoofe, and cheweth not the cud, shalbe vncleane vnto you: ye shall not eate of their flesh, nor touch their dead carkeises.
Deuteronomy 14:9	These ye shall eate, of all that are in the waters: all that haue finnes and scales shall ye eate.
Deuteronomy 14:10	And whatsoeuer hath no finnes nor scales, ye shall not eate: it shall be vncleane vnto you.
Deuteronomy 14:11	Of all cleane birdes ye shall eate:
Deuteronomy 14:12	But these are they, whereof ye shall not eate: the eagle, nor the goshawke, nor the osprey,
Deuteronomy 14:13	Nor the glead nor the kite, nor the vulture, after their kind,
Deuteronomy 14:14	Nor all kinde of rauens,
Deuteronomy 14:15	Nor the ostrich, nor the nightcrow, nor the semeaw, nor the hawke after her kinde,
Deuteronomy 14:16	Neither the litle owle, nor the great owle, nor the redshanke,
Deuteronomy 14:17	Nor the pellicane, nor the swanne, nor the cormorant:
Deuteronomy 14:18	The storke also, and the heron in his kinde, nor the lapwing, nor the backe.
Deuteronomy 14:19	And euery creeping thing that flieth, shall be vncleane vnto you: it shall not be eaten.
Deuteronomy 14:20	But of all cleane foules ye may eate.
Deuteronomy 14:21	Ye shall eate of nothing that dieth alone, but thou shalt giue it vnto the stranger that is within thy gates, that he may eate it: or thou maiest sell it vnto a stranger: for thou art an holy people vnto the Lord thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mothers milke.
Deuteronomy 14:22	Thou shalt giue the tithe of all the increase of thy seede, that commeth foorth of the fielde yeere by yeere.
Deuteronomy 14:23	And thou shalt eate before the Lord thy God (in the place which he shall chose to cause his Name to dwell there) the tithe of thy corne, of thy wine, and of thine oyle, and the first borne of thy kine and of thy sheepe, that thou maiest learne to feare the Lord thy God alway.
Deuteronomy 14:24	And if the way be too long for thee, so that thou art not able to cary it, because the place is farre from thee, where the Lord thy God shall chose to set his Name, when the Lord thy God shall blesse thee,
Deuteronomy 14:25	Then shalt thou make it in money, and take the money in thine hand, and goe vnto the place which the Lord thy God shall chose.
Deuteronomy 14:26	And thou shalt bestowe the money for whatsoeuer thine heart desireth: whether it be oxe, or sheepe, or wine, or strong drinke, or whatsoeuer thine heart desireth: and shalt eate it there before the Lord thy God, and reioyce, both thou, and thine household.
Deuteronomy 14:27	And the Leuite that is within thy gates, shalt thou not forsake: for he hath neither part nor inheritance with thee.
Deuteronomy 14:28	At the end of three yeere thou shalt bring foorth all the tithes of thine increase of the same yeere, and lay it vp within thy gates.
Deuteronomy 14:29	Then ye Leuite shall come, because he hath no part nor inheritance with thee, and the stranger, and the fatherlesse, and the widowe, which are within thy gates, and shall eate, and be filled, that the Lord thy God may blesse thee in al the worke of thine hand which thou doest.
Deuteronomy 15:1	At the terme of seuen yeeres thou shalt make a freedome.
Deuteronomy 15:2	And this is the maner of the freedome: euery creditour shall quite ye lone of his hand which he hath lent to his neighbour: he shall not aske it againe of his neighbour, nor of his brother: for the yeere of the Lords freedome is proclaimed.
Deuteronomy 15:3	Of a stranger thou mayest require it: but that which thou hast with thy brother, thine hand shall remit:
Deuteronomy 15:4	Saue when there shall be no poore with thee: for the Lord shall blesse thee in the land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee, for an inheritance to possesse it:
Deuteronomy 15:5	So that thou hearken vnto the voyce of the Lord thy God to obserue and doe all these commandements, which I commande thee this day.
Deuteronomy 15:6	For the Lord thy God hath blessed thee, as he hath promised thee: and thou shalt lend vnto many nations, but thou thy selfe shalt not borow, and thou shalt reigne ouer many nations, and they shall not reigne ouer thee.
Deuteronomy 15:7	If one of thy brethren with thee be poore within any of thy gates in thy land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee, thou shalt not harden thine heart, nor shut thine hand from thy poore brother:
Deuteronomy 15:8	But thou shalt open thine hand vnto him, and shalt lend him sufficient for his neede which he hath.
Deuteronomy 15:9	Beware that there be not a wicked thought in thine heart, to say, The seuenth yeere, the yeere of freedome is at hand: therefore it grieueth thee to looke on thy poore brother, and thou giuest him nought, and he crie vnto the Lord against thee, so that sinne be in thee:
Deuteronomy 15:10	Thou shalt giue him, and let it not grieue thine heart to giue vnto him: for because of this the Lord thy God shall blesse thee in al thy works, and in all that thou puttest thine hand to.
Deuteronomy 15:11	Because there shall be euer some poore in the land, therefore I command thee, saying, Thou shalt open thine hand vnto thy brother, to thy needie, and to thy poore in thy land.
Deuteronomy 15:12	If thy brother an Ebrewe sell himselfe to thee, or an Ebrewesse, and serue thee sixe yeere, euen in the seuenth yeere thou shalt let him goe free from thee:
Deuteronomy 15:13	And when thou sendest him out free from thee, thou shalt not let him goe away emptie,
Deuteronomy 15:14	But shalt giue him a liberall reward of thy sheepe, and of thy corne, and of thy wine: thou shalt giue him of that wherewith the Lord thy God hath blessed thee.
Deuteronomy 15:15	And remember that thou wast a seruant in the land of Egypt, and the Lord thy God deliuered thee: therefore I command thee this thing to day.
Deuteronomy 15:16	And if he say vnto thee, I will not go away from thee, because he loueth thee and thine house, and because he is well with thee,
Deuteronomy 15:17	Then shalt thou take a naule, and perce his eare through against the doore, and he shall be thy seruant for euer: and vnto thy maid seruant thou shall doe likewise.
Deuteronomy 15:18	Let it not grieue thee, when thou lettest him goe out free from thee: for he hath serued thee sixe yeeres, which is the double worth of an hired seruant: and the Lord thy God shall blesse thee in all that thou doest.
Deuteronomy 15:19	All the first borne males that come of thy cattell, and of thy sheepe, thou shalt sanctifie vnto the Lord thy God. Thou shalt do no worke with thy first borne bullocke, nor sheare thy first borne sheepe.
Deuteronomy 15:20	Thou shalt eate it before the Lord thy God yeere by yeere, in the place which the Lord shall chose, both thou, and thine household.
Deuteronomy 15:21	But if there be any blemish therein, as if it be lame, or blind, or haue any euill fault, thou shalt not offer it vnto the Lord thy God,
Deuteronomy 15:22	But shalt eate it within thy gates: the vncleane, and the cleane shall eate it alike, as the roe bucke, and as the hart.
Deuteronomy 15:23	Onely thou shalt not eate the blood thereof, but powre it vpon the ground as water.
Deuteronomy 16:1	Thou shalt keepe the moneth of Abib, and thou shalt celebrate the Passeouer vnto the Lord thy God: for in the moneth of Abib ye Lord thy God brought thee out of Egypt by night.
Deuteronomy 16:2	Thou shalt therefore offer the Passeouer vnto the Lord thy God, of sheepe and bullockes in the place where the Lord shall chose to cause his Name to dwell.
Deuteronomy 16:3	Thou shalt eate no leauened bread with it: but seuen dayes shalt thou eate vnleauened bread therewith, euen the bread of tribulation: for thou camest out of the land of Egypt in haste, that thou maist remember ye day whe thou camest out of the land of Egypt, all the dayes of thy life.
Deuteronomy 16:4	And there shalbe no leauen seene with thee in all thy coastes seuen dayes long: neither shall there remaine the night any of the flesh vntil the morning which thou offeredst ye first day at euen.
Deuteronomy 16:5	Thou maist not offer ye Passeouer within any of thy gates, which ye Lord thy God giueth thee:
Deuteronomy 16:6	But in the place which the Lord thy God shall choose to place his Name, there thou shalt offer the Passeouer at euen, about the going downe of the sunne, in the season that thou camest out of Egypt.
Deuteronomy 16:7	And thou shalt roste and eate it in the place which the Lord thy God shall choose, and shalt returne on the morowe, and goe vnto thy tentes.
Deuteronomy 16:8	Six daies shalt thou eate vnleauened bread, and ye seuenth day shall be a solemne assemblie to ye Lord thy God thou shalt do no worke therein.
Deuteronomy 16:9	Seuen weekes shalt thou nomber vnto thee, and shalt beginne to nomber ye seuen weekes, when thou beginnest to put the sickel to ye corne:
Deuteronomy 16:10	And thou shalt keepe the feast of weekes vnto the Lord thy God, euen a free gift of thine hand, which thou shalt giue vnto the Lord thy God, as the Lord thy God hath blessed thee.
Deuteronomy 16:11	And thou shalt reioyce before the Lord thy God, thou and thy sonne, and thy daughter, and thy seruant, and thy maide, and the Leuite that is within thy gates, and the stranger, and the fatherles, and the widowe, that are among you, in the place which the Lord thy God shall chuse to place his Name there,
Deuteronomy 16:12	And thou shalt remember that thou wast a seruant in Egypt: therefore thou shalt obserue and doe these ordinances.
Deuteronomy 16:13	Thou shalt obserue the feast of the Tabernacles seuen daies, when thou hast gathered in thy corne, and thy wine.
Deuteronomy 16:14	And thou shalt reioyce in thy feast, thou, and thy sonne, and thy daughter, and thy seruant, and thy maid, and the Leuite, and the stranger, and the fatherlesse, and the widow, that are within thy gates.
Deuteronomy 16:15	Seuen daies shalt thou keepe a feast vnto the Lord thy God in the place which the Lord shall chuse: when the Lord thy God shall blesse thee in all thine increase, and in all the workes of thine hands, thou shalt in any case be glad.
Deuteronomy 16:16	Three times in the yeere shall all the males appeare before the Lord thy God in the place which he shall chuse: in the feast of the vnleauened bread, and in the feast of the weekes, and in the feast of the Tabernacles: and they shall not appeare before the Lord emptie.
Deuteronomy 16:17	Euery man shall giue according to the gift of his hand, and according to the blessing of the Lord thy God, which he hath giuen thee.
Deuteronomy 16:18	Iudges and officers shalt thou make thee in all thy cities, which the Lord thy God giueth thee, throughout thy tribes: and they shall iudge the people with righteous iudgement.
Deuteronomy 16:19	Wrest not thou ye Law, nor respect any person, neither take rewarde: for the reward blindeth ye eyes of the wise, and peruerteth ye worde of ye iust.
Deuteronomy 16:20	That which is iust and right shalt thou follow, that thou maiest liue, and possesse the land which the Lord thy God giueth thee.
Deuteronomy 16:21	Thou shalt plant thee no groue of any trees neere vnto the altar of the Lord thy God, which thou shalt make thee.
Deuteronomy 16:22	Thou shalt set thee vp no pillar, which thing the Lord thy God hateth.
Deuteronomy 17:1	Thou shalt offer vnto the Lord thy God no bullocke nor sheepe wherein is blemish or any euill fauoured thing: for that is an abomination vnto the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 17:2	If there be founde among you in any of thy cities, which the Lord thy God giueth thee, man or woman that hath wrought wickednes in the sight of the Lord thy God, in transgressing his couenant,
Deuteronomy 17:3	And hath gone and serued other gods, and worshipped them: as the sunne, or the moone, or any of the hoste of heauen, which I haue not commanded,
Deuteronomy 17:4	And it be tolde vnto thee, and thou hast heard it, then shalt thou inquire diligently: and if it be true, and the thing certaine, that such abomination is wrought in Israel,
Deuteronomy 17:5	Then shalt thou bring foorth that man, or that woman (which haue committed that wicked thing) vnto thy gates, whether it be man or woman, and shalt stone them with stones, til they die.
Deuteronomy 17:6	At the mouth of two or three witnesses shall he that is woorthie of death, die: but at the mouth of one witnesse, he shall not die.
Deuteronomy 17:7	The handes of the witnesses shall be first vpon him, to kill him: and afterward the hands of all the people: so thou shalt take the wicked away from among you.
Deuteronomy 17:8	If there rise a matter too harde for thee in iudgement betweene blood and blood, betweene plea and plea, betweene plague and plague, in the matters of controuersie within thy gates, then shalt thou arise, and goe vp vnto the place which the Lord thy God shall chuse,
Deuteronomy 17:9	And thou shalt come vnto the Priestes of the Leuites, and vnto the iudge that shall be in those daies, and aske, and they shall shewe thee the sentence of iudgement,
Deuteronomy 17:10	And thou shalt do according to that thing which they of that place (which the Lord hath chosen) shewe thee, and thou shalt obserue to doe according to all that they informe thee.
Deuteronomy 17:11	According to the Lawe, which they shall teach thee, and according to the iudgement which they shall tell thee, shalt thou doe: thou shalt not decline from the thing which they shall shew thee, neither to the right hand, nor to the left.
Deuteronomy 17:12	And that man that wil doe presumptuously, not hearkening vnto the Priest (that standeth before the Lord thy God to minister there) or vnto the iudge, that man shall die, and thou shalt take away euill from Israel.
Deuteronomy 17:13	So all the people shall heare and feare, and doe no more presumptuously.
Deuteronomy 17:14	Whe thou shalt come vnto ye land which the Lord thy God giueth thee, and shalt possesse it, and dwell therein, if thou say, I will set a King ouer me, like as all the nations that are about me,
Deuteronomy 17:15	Then thou shalt make him King ouer thee, whome the Lord thy God shall chuse: from among thy brethren shalt thou make a King ouer thee: thou shalt not set a stranger ouer thee, which is not thy brother.
Deuteronomy 17:16	In any wise he shall not prepare him many horses, nor bring the people againe to Egypt, for to encrease the number of horses, seeing the Lord hath sayd vnto you, Ye shall henceforth goe no more againe that way.
Deuteronomy 17:17	Neither shall hee take him many wiues, lest his heart turne away, neither shall he gather him much siluer and golde.
Deuteronomy 17:18	And when he shall sit vpon the throne of his kingdo, then shall he write him this Law repeted in a booke, by the Priests of the Leuites.
Deuteronomy 17:19	And it shall be with him, and he shall reade therein all daies of his life, that he may learne to feare the Lord his God, and to keepe all ye words of this Lawe, and these ordinances for to doe them:
Deuteronomy 17:20	That his heart be not lifted vp aboue his brethren, and that he turne not from the commandement, to the right hand or to the left, but that he may prolong his daies in his kingdom, he, and his sonnes in the middes of Israel.
Deuteronomy 18:1	The Priests of the Leuites, and all the tribe of Leui shall haue no part nor inheritace with Israel, but shall eate the offerings of the Lord made by fire, and his inheritance.
Deuteronomy 18:2	Therefore shall they haue no inheritance among their brethren: for the Lord is their inheritance, as he hath sayd vnto them.
Deuteronomy 18:3	And this shalbe the Priests duetie of the people, that they, which offer sacrifice, whether it be bullocke or sheepe, shall giue vnto the Priest the shoulder, and the two cheekes, and the mawe.
Deuteronomy 18:4	The first fruites also of thy corne, of thy wine, and of thine oyle, and the first of the fleece of thy sheepe shalt thou giue him.
Deuteronomy 18:5	For the Lord thy God hath chosen him out of all thy tribes, to stande and minister in the Name of the Lord, him, and his sonnes for euer.
Deuteronomy 18:6	Also when a Leuite shall come out of any of thy cities of all Israel, where hee remained, and come with all the desire of his heart vnto the place, which the Lord shall chuse,
Deuteronomy 18:7	He shall then minister in the Name of the Lord his God, as all his brethren the Leuites, which remaine there before the Lord.
Deuteronomy 18:8	They shall haue like portions to eat beside that which commeth of his sale of his patrimonie.
Deuteronomy 18:9	When thou shalt come into ye land which the Lord thy God giueth thee, thou shalt not learne to do after ye abominations of those nations.
Deuteronomy 18:10	Let none be founde among you that maketh his sonne or his daughter to goe thorough the fire, or that vseth witchcraft, or a regarder of times, or a marker of the flying of foules, or a sorcerer,
Deuteronomy 18:11	Or a charmer, or that counselleth with spirits, or a soothsaier, or that asketh counsel at ye dead.
Deuteronomy 18:12	For all that doe such things are abomination vnto the Lord, and because of these abominations the Lord thy God doeth cast them out before thee.
Deuteronomy 18:13	Thou shalt be vpright therefore with the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 18:14	For these nations which thou shalt possesse, hearken vnto those that regarde the times, and vnto sorcerers: as for thee, the Lord thy God hath not suffred thee so.
Deuteronomy 18:15	The Lord thy God will raise vp vnto thee a Prophet like vnto me, from among you, euen of thy brethren: vnto him ye shall hearken,
Deuteronomy 18:16	According to al that thou desiredst of the Lord thy God in Horeb, in the day of the assemblie, when thou saidest, Let me heare the voice of my Lord God no more, nor see this great fire any more, that I die not.
Deuteronomy 18:17	And the Lord sayde vnto me, They haue well spoken.
Deuteronomy 18:18	I will raise them vp a Prophet from among their brethren like vnto thee, and will put my woordes in his mouth, and he shall speake vnto them all that I shall commaund him.
Deuteronomy 18:19	And whosoeuer will not hearken vnto my wordes, which he shall speake in my Name, I will require it of him.
Deuteronomy 18:20	But the prophet that shall presume to speake a worde in my name, which I haue not commanded him to speake, or that speaketh in the name of other gods, euen the same prophet shall die.
Deuteronomy 18:21	And if thou thinke in thine heart, Howe shall we knowe the worde which the Lord hath not spoken?
Deuteronomy 18:22	When a prophet speaketh in the Name of the Lord, if the thing follow not nor come to passe, that is the thing which the Lord hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken it presumptuously: thou shalt not therefore be afraid of him.
Deuteronomy 19:1	When the Lord thy God shall roote out the nations, whose lande the Lord thy God giueth thee, and thou shalt possesse them, and dwell in their cities, and in their houses,
Deuteronomy 19:2	Thou shalt separate three cities for thee in the middes of thy lande which the Lord thy God giueth thee to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 19:3	Thou shalt prepare thee the way, and deuide the coastes of the land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee to inherite, into three parts, that euery manslayer may flee thither.
Deuteronomy 19:4	This also is ye cause wherfore the manslayer shall flee thither, and liue: who so killeth his neighbor ignorantly, and hated him not in time passed:
Deuteronomy 19:5	As hee that goeth vnto the wood with his neighbor to hew wood, and his hand striketh with the axe to cut downe the tree, if the head slip from the helue, and hit his neighbour that he dieth, the same shall flee vnto one of the cities, and liue,
Deuteronomy 19:6	Least the auenger of the blood follow after the manslayer, while his heart is chafed, and ouertake him, because the way is long, and slaie him, although he be not worthy of death, because he hated him not in time passed.
Deuteronomy 19:7	Wherefore I command thee, saying, Thou shalt appoint out three cities for thee.
Deuteronomy 19:8	And when the Lord thy God enlargeth thy coastes (as he hath sworne vnto thy fathers) and giueth thee all the lande which he promised to giue vnto thy fathers,
Deuteronomy 19:9	(If thou keepe all these commandements to doe them, which I commaund thee this day: to wit, that thou loue the Lord thy God, and walke in his waies for euer) then shalt thou adde three cities moe for thee besides those three,
Deuteronomy 19:10	That innocent bloude be not shed within thy land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee to inherite, lest bloud be vpon thee.
Deuteronomy 19:11	But if a man hate his neighbour, and lay waite for him, and rise against him, and smite any man that he die, and flee vnto any of these cities,
Deuteronomy 19:12	Then the Elders of his citie shall send and set him thence, and deliuer him into the hands of the auenger of the blood, that he may die.
Deuteronomy 19:13	Thine eye shall not spare him, but thou shalt put away the crie of innocent blood from Israel, that it may goe well with thee.
Deuteronomy 19:14	Thou shalt not remooue thy neighbours marke, which they of olde time haue set in thine inheritance, that thou shalt inherite in the lande, which ye Lord thy God giueth thee to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 19:15	One witnes shall not rise against a man for any trespasse, or for any sinne, or for any fault that hee offendeth in, but at the mouth of two witnesses or at the mouth of three witnesses shall the matter be stablished.
Deuteronomy 19:16	If a false witnesse rise vp against a man to accuse him of trespasse,
Deuteronomy 19:17	Then both the men which striue together, shall stand before ye Lord, euen before the Priests and the Iudges, which shall be in those daies,
Deuteronomy 19:18	And the Iudges shall make diligent inquisition: and if the witnesse be found false, and hath giuen false witnes against his brother,
Deuteronomy 19:19	Then shall yee doe vnto him as hee had thought to doe vnto his brother: so thou shalt take euil away forth of the middes of thee.
Deuteronomy 19:20	And the rest shall heare this, and feare, and shall henceforth commit no more any such wickednes among you.
Deuteronomy 19:21	Therefore thine eye shall have no compassion, but life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foote for foote.
Deuteronomy 20:1	When thou shalt go forth to warre against thine enemies, and shalt see horses and charets, and people moe then thou, be not afrayde of them: for the Lord thy God is with thee, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt.
Deuteronomy 20:2	And when ye are come neere vnto the battel, then the Priest shall come forth to speake vnto the people,
Deuteronomy 20:3	And shall say vnto them, Heare, O Israel: ye are come this day vnto battell against your enemies: let not your heartes faynt, neither feare, nor be amased, nor adread of them.
Deuteronomy 20:4	For ye Lord your God goeth with you, to fight for you against your enemies, and to saue you
Deuteronomy 20:5	And let the officers speake vnto the people, saying, What man is there that hath buylt a new house, and hath not dedicate it? let him go and returne to his house, least he dye in the battel, and an other man dedicate it.
Deuteronomy 20:6	And what man is there that hath planted a vineyarde, and hath not eaten of the fruite? let him go and returne againe vnto his house, least he die in the battel, and another eate the fruite.
Deuteronomy 20:7	And what man is there that hath betrothed a wife, and hath not taken her? let him go and returne againe vnto his house, lest he die in the battell, and another man take her.
Deuteronomy 20:8	And let the officers speake further vnto the people, and say, Whosoeuer is afrayde and faynt hearted, let him go and returne vnto his house, least his brethrens heart faynt like his heart.
Deuteronomy 20:9	And after that the officers haue made an ende of speaking vnto the people, they shall make captaines of the armie to gouerne the people.
Deuteronomy 20:10	When thou commest neere vnto a citie to fight against it, thou shalt offer it peace.
Deuteronomy 20:11	And if it answere thee againe peaceably, and open vnto thee, then let all the people that is founde therein, be tributaries vnto thee, and serue thee.
Deuteronomy 20:12	But if it will make no peace with thee, but make war against thee, then shalt thou besiege it.
Deuteronomy 20:13	And the Lord thy God shall deliuer it into thine handes, and thou shalt smite all the males thereof with the edge of the sworde.
Deuteronomy 20:14	Onely the women, and the children, and the cattel, and all that is in the citie, euen all the spoyle thereof shalt thou take vnto thy selfe, and shalt eate the spoyle of thine enemies, which the Lord thy God hath giuen thee.
Deuteronomy 20:15	Thus shalt thou do vnto all ye cities, which are a great way off from thee, which are not of the cities of these nations here.
Deuteronomy 20:16	But of the cities of this people, which the Lord thy God shall giue thee to inherite, thou shalt saue no person aliue,
Deuteronomy 20:17	But shalt vtterly destroy them: to wit, the Hittites, and the Amorites, the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, the Hiuites, and the Iebusites, as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee,
Deuteronomy 20:18	That they teache you not to doe after all their abominations, which they haue done vnto their gods, and so ye should sinne against the Lord your God.
Deuteronomy 20:19	When thou hast besieged a citie long time, and made warre against it to take it, destroy not the trees therof, by smiting an axe into them: for thou mayest eate of them: therfore thou shalt not cut them downe to further thee in the siege, (for the tree of the field is mans life)
Deuteronomy 20:20	Onely those trees, which thou knowest are not for meate, those shalt thou destroy and cut downe, and make fortes against the citie that maketh warre with thee, vntil thou subdue it.
Deuteronomy 21:1	If one be founde slaine in the lande, which the Lord thy God giueth thee to possesse it, lying in the field, and it is not knowe who hath slaine him,
Deuteronomy 21:2	Then thine Elders and thy Iudges shall come forth, and measure vnto the cities that are round about him that is slayne.
Deuteronomy 21:3	Aud let ye Elders of that citie, which is next vnto the slaine man, take out of the droue an heifer that hath not bene put to labour, nor hath drawen in the yoke.
Deuteronomy 21:4	And let the Elders of that citie bring the heifer vnto a stonie valley, which is neyther eared nor sowen, and strike off the heifers necke there in the valley.
Deuteronomy 21:5	Also the Priests the sonnes of Leui (whom the Lord thy God hath chosen to minister, and to blesse in the name of the Lord) shall come forth, and by their word shall all strife and plague be tried.
Deuteronomy 21:6	And all the Elders of that citie that came neere to the slayne man, shall wash their hands ouer the heifer that is beheaded in the valley:
Deuteronomy 21:7	And shall testifie, and say, Our handes haue not shed this blood, neither haue our eies seene it.
Deuteronomy 21:8	O Lord, be mercifull vnto thy people Israel, whom thou hast redeemed, and lay no innocent blood to the charge of thy people Israel, and the blood shalbe forgiuen them.
Deuteronomy 21:9	So shalt thou take away the cry of innocet blood from thee, when thou shalt do that which is right in the sight of the Lord.
Deuteronomy 21:10	Whe thou shalt go to warre against thine enemies, and the Lord thy God shall deliuer them into thine hands, and thou shalt take the captiues,
Deuteronomy 21:11	And shalt see among the captiues a beautifull woman, and hast a desire vnto her, and wouldest take her to thy wife,
Deuteronomy 21:12	Then thou shalt bring her home to thine house, and she shall shaue her head, and pare her nayles,
Deuteronomy 21:13	And she shall put off the garment that shee was taken in, and she shall remaine in thine house, and bewaile her father and her mother a moneth long: and after that shalt thou go in vnto her, and marry her, and she shalbe thy wife.
Deuteronomy 21:14	And if thou haue no fauour vnto her, then thou mayest let her go whither she will, but thou shalt not sell her for money, nor make marchandise of her, because thou hast humbled her.
Deuteronomy 21:15	If a man haue two wiues, one loued and another hated, and they haue borne him children, both the loued and also the hated: if the first borne be the sonne of the hated,
Deuteronomy 21:16	Then when the time commeth, that hee appointeth his sonnes to be heires of that which he hath, he may not make the sonne of the beloued first borne before the sonne of the hated, which is the first borne:
Deuteronomy 21:17	But he shall acknowledge the sonne of the hated for the first borne, and giue him double portion of all that he hath: for hee is the first of his strength, and to him belongeth the right of the first borne.
Deuteronomy 21:18	If any man haue a sonne that is stubburne and disobedient, which wil not hearken vnto the voice of his father, nor the voyce of his mother, and they haue chastened him, and he would not obey them,
Deuteronomy 21:19	Then shall his father and his mother take him, and bring him out vnto the Elders of his citie, and vnto the gate of the place where he dwelleth,
Deuteronomy 21:20	And shall say vnto the Elders of his citie, This our sonne is stubburne and disobedient, and he wil not obey our admonition: he is a riotour, and a drunkard.
Deuteronomy 21:21	Then all the men of his citie shall stone him with stones vnto death: so thou shalt take away euill from among you, that all Israel may heare it, and feare.
Deuteronomy 21:22	If a man also haue committed a trespasse worthy of death, and is put to death, and thou hangest him on a tree,
Deuteronomy 21:23	His body shall not remaine all night vpon the tree, but thou shalt bury him the same day: for the curse of God is on him that is hanged. Defile not therfore thy land which the Lord thy God giueth thee to inherite.
Deuteronomy 22:1	Thou shalt not see thy brothers oxe nor his sheepe go astray, and withdraw thy selfe from them, but shalt bring the againe vnto thy brother.
Deuteronomy 22:2	And if thy brother bee not neere vnto thee, or if thou knowe him not, then thou shalt bring it into thine house, and it shall remaine with thee, vntill thy brother seeke after it: then shalt thou deliuer it to him againe.
Deuteronomy 22:3	In like maner shalt thou do with his asse, and so shalt thou do with his rayment, and shalt so doe with all lost things of thy brother, which he hath lost: if thou hast found them, thou shalt not withdraw thy selfe from them.
Deuteronomy 22:4	Thou shalt not see thy brothers asse nor his oxe fal downe by the way, and withdrawe thy selfe from them, but shalt lift them vp with him.
Deuteronomy 22:5	The woman shall not weare that which perteineth vnto the man, neither shall a man put on womans rayment: for all that doe so, are abomination vnto the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 22:6	If thou finde a birdes nest in the way, in any tree, or on the ground, whether they be yong or egges, and the damme sitting vpon the yong, or vpon the egges, thou shalt not take ye damme with the yong,
Deuteronomy 22:7	But shalt in any wise let the damme go, and take the yong to thee, that thou mayest prosper and prolong thy dayes.
Deuteronomy 22:8	When thou buildest a newe house, thou shalt make a battlemet on thy roofe, that thou lay not blood vpon thine house, if any man fal thence.
Deuteronomy 22:9	Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with diuers kinds of seedes, lest thou defile the increase of the seede which thou hast sowen, and the fruite of the vineyarde.
Deuteronomy 22:10	Thou shalt not plow with an oxe and an asse together.
Deuteronomy 22:11	Thou shalt not weare a garment of diuers sorts, as of woollen and linen together.
Deuteronomy 22:12	Thou shalt make thee fringes vpon the foure quarters of thy vesture, wherewith thou couerest thy selfe.
Deuteronomy 22:13	If a man take a wife, and when he hath lyen with her, hate her,
Deuteronomy 22:14	And laye slaunderous thinges vnto her charge, and bring vp an euill name vpon her, and say, I tooke this wife, and when I came to her, I found her not a mayde,
Deuteronomy 22:15	Then shall the father of the mayde and her mother take and bring the signes of the maydes virginitie vnto the Elders of the citie to the gate.
Deuteronomy 22:16	And the maydes father shall say vnto the Elders, I gaue my daughter vnto this man to wife, and he hateth her:
Deuteronomy 22:17	And lo, he layeth slaunderous things vnto her charge, saying, I founde not thy daughter a mayde: loe, these are the tokens of my daughters virginitie: and they shall spreade the vesture before the Elders of the citie.
Deuteronomy 22:18	Then the Elders of the citie shall take that man and chastise him,
Deuteronomy 22:19	And shall condemne him in an hundreth shekels of siluer, and giue them vnto the father of the mayde, because he hath brought vp an euill name vpon a mayde of Israel: and she shalbe his wife, and he may not put her away all his life.
Deuteronomy 22:20	But if this thing be true, that the mayde be not found a virgine,
Deuteronomy 22:21	Then shall they bring forth the mayde to the doore of her fathers house, and the men of her citie shall stone her with stones to death: for shee hath wrought follie in Israel, by playing ye whore in her fathers house: so thou shalt put euill away from among you.
Deuteronomy 22:22	If a man be found lying with a woman marryed to a man, then they shall dye euen both twaine: to wit, the man that lay with the wife, and the wife: so thou shalt put away euil from Israel.
Deuteronomy 22:23	If a maid be betrothed vnto an husband, and a man finde her in the towne and lye with her,
Deuteronomy 22:24	Then shall yee bring them both out vnto the gates of the same citie, and shall stone them with stones to death: the mayde because she cried not, being in the citie, and the man, because he hath humbled his neighbours wife: so thou shalt put away euill from among you.
Deuteronomy 22:25	But if a man finde a betrothed mayde in the field, and force her, and lye with her, then the man that lay with her, shall dye alone:
Deuteronomy 22:26	And vnto the mayd thou shalt do nothing, because there is in the mayde no cause of death: for as when a man riseth against his neighbour and woundeth him to death, so is this matter.
Deuteronomy 22:27	For he found her in the fieldes: the betrothed mayde cryed, and there was no man to succour her.
Deuteronomy 22:28	If a man finde a mayde that is not betrothed, and take her, and lye with her, and they be founde,
Deuteronomy 22:29	Then the man that lay with her, shall giue vnto the maydes father fiftie shekels of siluer: and she shalbe his wife, because he hath humbled her: he can not put her away all his life.
Deuteronomy 22:30	No man shall take his fathers wife, nor shall vncouer his fathers skirt.
Deuteronomy 23:1	None that is hurt by bursting, or that hath his priuie member cut off, shall enter into the Congregation of the Lord.
Deuteronomy 23:2	A bastard shall not enter into the Congregation of the Lord: euen to his tenth generation shall he not enter into the Congregation of the Lord.
Deuteronomy 23:3	The Ammonites and the Moabites shall not enter into the Congregation of the Lord: euen to their tenth generation shall they not enter into the Congregation of the Lord for euer,
Deuteronomy 23:4	Because they met you not with bread and water in the way, when yee came out of Egypt, and because they hyred against thee Balaam the sonne of Beor, of Pethor in Aram-naharaim, to curse thee.
Deuteronomy 23:5	Neuerthelesse, the Lord thy God would not hearken vnto Balaam, but the Lord thy God turned the curse to a blessing vnto thee, because the Lord thy God loued thee.
Deuteronomy 23:6	Thou shalt not seeke their peace nor their prosperitie all thy dayes for euer.
Deuteronomy 23:7	Thou shalt not abhorre an Edomite: for he is thy brother, neither shalt thou abhorre an Egyptian, because thou wast a strager in his land.
Deuteronomy 23:8	The children that are begotten of them in their thirde generation, shall enter into the Congregation of the Lord.
Deuteronomy 23:9	When thou goest out with the host against thine enemies, keepe thee then from all wickednesse.
Deuteronomy 23:10	If there be among you any that is vncleane by that which commeth to him by night, he shall goe out of the hoste, and shall not enter into the hoste,
Deuteronomy 23:11	But at euen he shall wash him selfe with water, and when the sunne is downe, he shall enter into the hoste.
Deuteronomy 23:12	Thou shalt haue a place also without the hoste whither thou shalt resort,
Deuteronomy 23:13	And thou shalt haue a paddle among thy weapons, and when thou wouldest sit downe without, thou shalt shalt digge therewith, and returning thou shalt couer thine excrements.
Deuteronomy 23:14	For the Lord thy God walketh in the mids of thy campe to deliuer thee, and to giue thee thine enemies before thee: therefore thine hoste shalbe holy, that he see no filthie thing in thee and turne away from thee.
Deuteronomy 23:15	Thou shalt not deliuer the seruant vnto his master, which is escaped from his master vnto thee.
Deuteronomy 23:16	He shall dwell with thee, euen among you, in what place he shall chuse, in one of thy cities where it liketh him best: thou shalt not vexe him.
Deuteronomy 23:17	There shalbe no whore of the daughters of Israel, neither shall there be a whore keeper of the sonnes of Israel.
Deuteronomy 23:18	Thou shalt neyther bring the hyre of a whore, nor the price of a dogge into the house of the Lord thy God for any vow: for euen both these are abomination vnto the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 23:19	Thou shalt not giue to vsurie to thy brother: as vsurie of money, vsurie of meate, vsurie of any thing that is put to vsurie.
Deuteronomy 23:20	Vnto a stranger thou mayest lend vpon vsurie, but thou shalt not lend vpon vsurie vnto thy brother, that the Lord thy God may blesse thee in all that thou settest thine hand to, in the land whither thou goest to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 23:21	When thou shalt vowe a vowe vnto the Lord thy God, thou shalt not be slacke to paye it: for the Lord thy God will surely require it of thee, and so it should be sinne vnto thee.
Deuteronomy 23:22	But when thou absteinest from vowing, it shalbe no sinne vnto thee.
Deuteronomy 23:23	That which is gone out of thy lippes, thou shalt keepe and performe, as thou hast vowed it willingly vnto the Lord thy God: for thou hast spoken it with thy mouth.
Deuteronomy 23:24	When thou commest vnto thy neighbours vineyard, then thou mayest eate grapes at thy pleasure, as much as thou wilt: but thou shalt put none in thy vessell.
Deuteronomy 23:25	When thou commest into thy neighbours corne thou mayest plucke the eares with thine hand, but thou shalt not moue a sickle to thy neighbours corne.
Deuteronomy 24:1	When a man taketh a wife, and marrieth her, if so be shee finde no fauour in his eyes, because hee hath espyed some filthinesse in her, then let him write her a bill of diuorcement, and put it in her hand, and send her out of his house.
Deuteronomy 24:2	And when she is departed out of his house, and gone her way, and marrie with an other man,
Deuteronomy 24:3	And if the latter husband hate her, and write her a letter of diuorcement, and put it in her hand, and send her out of his house, or if the latter man die which tooke her to wife:
Deuteronomy 24:4	Then her first husband, which sent her away, may not take her againe to be his wife, after that she is defiled: for that is abomination in the sight of the Lord, and thou shalt not cause the land to sinne, which the Lord thy God doeth giue thee to inherite.
Deuteronomy 24:5	When a man taketh a new wife, he shall not goe a warfare, neither shalbe charged with any businesse, but shalbe free at home one yeere, and reioyce with his wife which he hath taken.
Deuteronomy 24:6	No man shall take the nether nor the vpper milstone to pledge: for this gage is his liuing.
Deuteronomy 24:7	If any man be found stealing any of his brethren of the children of Israel, and maketh marchandise of him, or selleth him, that thiefe shall die: so shalt thou put euil away from among you.
Deuteronomy 24:8	Take heede of the plague of leprosie, that thou obserue diligently, and doe according to all that the Priestes of the Leuites shall teach you: take heede ye doe as I commanded them.
Deuteronomy 24:9	Remember what the Lord thy God did vnto Miriam by the way after that ye were come out of Egypt.
Deuteronomy 24:10	Whe thou shalt aske again of thy neighbour any thing lent, thou shalt not goe into his house to fet his pledge.
Deuteronomy 24:11	But thou shalt stand without, and the man that borowed it of thee, shall bring the pledge out of the doores vnto thee.
Deuteronomy 24:12	Furthermore if it be a poore body, thou shalt not sleepe with his pledge,
Deuteronomy 24:13	But shalt restore him the pledge when the sunne goeth downe, that he may sleepe in his raiment, and blesse thee: and it shalbe righteousnesse vnto thee before the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 24:14	Thou shalt not oppresse an hyred seruant that is needie and poore, neyther of thy brethren, nor of the stranger that is in thy land within thy gates.
Deuteronomy 24:15	Thou shalt giue him his hire for his day, neither shall the sunne goe downe vpon it: for he is poore, and therewith susteineth his life: lest he crye against thee vnto the Lord, and it be sinne vnto thee.
Deuteronomy 24:16	The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children put to death for the fathers, but euery man shalbe put to death for his owne sinne.
Deuteronomy 24:17	Thou shalt not peruert the right of the stranger, nor of the fatherlesse, nor take a widowes rayment to pledge.
Deuteronomy 24:18	But remember that thou wast a seruant in Egypt, and howe the Lord thy God deliuered thee thence. Therefore I commaund thee to doe this thing.
Deuteronomy 24:19	When thou cuttest downe thine haruest in thy fielde, and hast forgotten a sheafe in the fielde, thou shalt not goe againe to fet it, but it shalbe for the stranger, for the fatherles, and for the widowe: that the Lord thy God may blesse thee in all the workes of thine hands.
Deuteronomy 24:20	When thou beatest thine oliue tree, thou shalt not goe ouer the boughes againe, but it shalbe for the stranger, for the fatherlesse, and for the widowe.
Deuteronomy 24:21	When thou gatherest thy vineyard, thou shalt not gather the grapes cleane after thee, but they shalbe for the stranger, for the fatherlesse, and for the widowe.
Deuteronomy 24:22	And remember that thou wast a seruant in the land of Egypt: therefore I command thee to doe this thing.
Deuteronomy 25:1	When there shall be strife betweene men, and they shall come vnto iudgement, and sentence shall be giuen vpon them, and the righteous shall be iustified, and the wicked condemned,
Deuteronomy 25:2	Then if so be the wicked be worthy to bee beaten, the iudge shall cause him to lie downe, and to be beaten before his face, according to his trespasse, vnto a certaine nomber.
Deuteronomy 25:3	Fortie stripes shall he cause him to haue and not past, lest if he should exceede and beate him aboue that with many stripes, thy brother should appeare despised in thy sight.
Deuteronomy 25:4	Thou shalt not mousell the oxe that treadeth out the corne.
Deuteronomy 25:5	If brethren dwell together, and one of them dye and haue no sonne, the wife of the dead shall not marry without: that is, vnto a stranger, but his kinseman shall goe in vnto her, and take her to wife, and doe the kinsemans office to her.
Deuteronomy 25:6	And the first borne which she beareth, shall succeede in the name of his brother which is dead, that his name be not put out of Israel.
Deuteronomy 25:7	And if the man will not take his kinsewoman, then let his kinsewoman goe vp to the gate vnto the Elders, and say, My kinsman refuseth to rayse vp vnto his brother a name in Israel: hee will not doe the office of a kinsman vnto me.
Deuteronomy 25:8	Then the Elders of his citie shall call him, and commune with him: if he stand and say, I wil not take her,
Deuteronomy 25:9	Then shall his kinswoman come vnto him in the presence of the Elders, and loose his shooe from his foote, and spit in his face, and answere, and say, So shall it be done vnto that man, that will not buylde vp his brothers house.
Deuteronomy 25:10	And his name shall be called in Israel, The house of him whose shooe is put off.
Deuteronomy 25:11	When men striue together, one with another, if the wife of the one come neere, for to ridde her husband out of the handes of him that smiteth him, and put foorth her hand, and take him by his priuities,
Deuteronomy 25:12	Then thou shalt cut off her hande: thine eye shall not spare her.
Deuteronomy 25:13	Thou shalt not haue in thy bagge two maner of weightes, a great and a small,
Deuteronomy 25:14	Neither shalt thou haue in thine house diuers measures, a great and a small:
Deuteronomy 25:15	But thou shalt haue a right and iust weight: a perfite and a iust measure shalt thou haue, that thy dayes may be lengthened in the land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee.
Deuteronomy 25:16	For all that doe such things, and all that doe vnrighteously, are abomination vnto the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 25:17	Remember what Amalek did vnto thee by the way, when ye were come out of Egypt:
Deuteronomy 25:18	How he met thee by ye way, and smote ye hindmost of you, all that were feeble behind thee, when thou wast fainted and weary, and he feared not God.
Deuteronomy 25:19	Therefore, when the Lord thy God hath giuen thee rest from all thine enemies round about in the land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee for an inheritance to possesse it, then thou shalt put out the remembrance of Amalek from vnder heauen: forget not.
Deuteronomy 26:1	Also when thou shalt come into the lande which the Lord thy God giueth thee for inheritance, and shalt possesse it, and dwell therein,
Deuteronomy 26:2	Then shalt thou take of the first of all the fruite of the earth, and bring it out of the lande that the Lord thy God giueth thee, and put it in a basket, and goe vnto the place, which the Lord thy God shall chose to place his Name there.
Deuteronomy 26:3	And thou shalt come vnto the Priest, that shall be in those dayes, and say vnto him, I acknowledge this day vnto the Lord thy God, that I am come vnto the countrey which the Lord sware vnto our fathers for to giue vs.
Deuteronomy 26:4	Then the Priest shall take the basket out of thine hand, and set it downe before the altar of the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 26:5	And thou shalt answere and say before the Lord thy God, A Syrian was my father, who being ready to perish for hunger, went downe into Egypt, and soiourned there with a small company, and grew there vnto a nation great, mightie and full of people.
Deuteronomy 26:6	And the Egyptians vexed vs, and troubled vs, and laded vs with cruell bondage.
Deuteronomy 26:7	But when we cried vnto the Lord God of our fathers, the Lord heard our voyce, and looked on our aduersitie, and on our labour, and on our oppression.
Deuteronomy 26:8	And the Lord brought vs out of Egypt in a mightie hande, and a stretched out arme, with great terriblenesse, both in signes and wonders.
Deuteronomy 26:9	And he hath brought vs into this place, and hath giuen vs this land, euen a lande that floweth with milke and hony.
Deuteronomy 26:10	And now, lo, I haue brought ye first fruites of the land which thou, O Lord, hast giuen me, and thou shalt set it before the Lord thy God, and worship before the Lord thy God:
Deuteronomy 26:11	And thou shalt reioyce in all the good things which the Lord thy God hath giuen vnto thee and to thine houshold, thou and the Leuite, and the stranger that is among you.
Deuteronomy 26:12	When thou hast made an end of tithing all the tythes of thine increase, the thirde yeere, which is the yeere of tithing, and hast giuen it vnto the Leuite, to the stranger, to the fatherlesse, and to the widowe, that they may eate within thy gates, and be satisfied,
Deuteronomy 26:13	Then thou shalt say before the Lord thy God, I haue brought the halowed thing out of mine house, and also haue giuen it vnto the Leuites and to the strangers, to the fatherlesse, and to the widow, according to all thy comandements which thou hast commanded me: I haue transgressed none of thy comandements, nor forgotten them.
Deuteronomy 26:14	I haue not eaten therof in my mourning, nor suffred ought to perish through vncleannes, nor giuen ought thereof for the dead, but haue hearkened vnto the voyce of the Lord my God: I haue done after al that thou hast comaded me.
Deuteronomy 26:15	Looke downe from thine holy habitation, euen from heauen, and blesse thy people Israel, and the lande which thou hast giuen vs (as thou swarest vnto our fathers) the land that floweth with milke and hony.
Deuteronomy 26:16	This day the Lord thy God doeth command thee to do these ordinances, and lawes: keepe them therefore, and do them with al thine heart, and with all thy soule.
Deuteronomy 26:17	Thou hast set vp the Lord this day to be thy God, and to walke in his wayes, and to keepe his ordinances, and his commandements, and his lawes, and to hearken vnto his voyce.
Deuteronomy 26:18	And the Lord hath set thee vp this day, to be a precious people vnto him (as hee hath promised thee) and that thou shouldest keepe all his commandements,
Deuteronomy 26:19	And to make thee high aboue al nations (which he hath made) in praise, and in name, and in glory, and that thou shouldest be an holy people vnto the Lord thy God, as he hath said.
Deuteronomy 27:1	Then Moses with the Elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, Keepe all the comandements, which I command you this day.
Deuteronomy 27:2	And when ye shall passe ouer Iorden vnto the lande which the Lord thy God giueth thee, thou shalt set thee vp great stones, and playster them with plaister,
Deuteronomy 27:3	And shalt write vpon them all the words of this Lawe, when thou shalt come ouer, that thou mayest go into the land which the Lord thy God giueth thee: a land that floweth with milke and hony, as the Lord God of thy fathers hath promised thee.
Deuteronomy 27:4	Therefore when ye shall passe ouer Iorden, ye shall set vp these stones, which I command you this daye in mount Ebal, and thou shalt plaister them with plaister.
Deuteronomy 27:5	And there shalt thou build vnto the Lord thy God an altar, euen an altar of stones: thou shalt lift none yron instrument vpon them.
Deuteronomy 27:6	Thou shalt make the altar of the Lord thy God of whole stones, and offer burnt offerings thereon vnto the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 27:7	And thou shalt offer peace offrings, and shalt eate there and reioyce before the Lord thy God:
Deuteronomy 27:8	And thou shalt write vpon the stones al the words of this Law, well and plainely.
Deuteronomy 27:9	And Moses and the Priestes of the Leuites spake vnto all Israel, saying, Take heede and heare, O Israel: this day thou art become the people of the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 27:10	Thou shalt hearken therefore vnto the voyce of the Lord thy God, and do his commandements and his ordinances, which I commande thee this day.
Deuteronomy 27:11	And Moses charged the people the same day, saying,
Deuteronomy 27:12	These shall stand vpon mount Gerizzim, to blesse the people when ye shall passe ouer Iorden: Simeon, and Leui, and Iudah, and Issachar, and Ioseph, and Beniamin.
Deuteronomy 27:13	And these shall stand vpon mount Ebal to curse: Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
Deuteronomy 27:14	And the Leuites shall answere and say vnto all the men of Israel with a loude voyce,
Deuteronomy 27:15	Cursed be the man that shall make any carued or molten image, which is an abomination vnto the Lord, the worke of the hands of the craftesman, and putteth it in a secrete place: And all the people shall answere, and say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 27:16	Cursed be he that curseth his father and his mother: And all the people shall say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 27:17	Cursed be he that remoueth his neighbors marke: And all the people shall say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 27:18	Cursed be he that maketh ye blinde go out of the way: And all the people shall say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 27:19	Cursed be he that hindreth the right of the stranger, the fatherles, and the widow: And all the people shall say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 27:20	Cursed be hee that lyeth with his fathers wife: for he hath vncouered his fathers skirt: And all the people shall say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 27:21	Cursed be he that lieth with any beast: And all the people shall say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 27:22	Cursed be he that lyeth with his sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother: And all the people shall say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 27:23	Cursed be he that lyeth with his mother in law: And all the people shall say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 27:24	Cursed be hee that smiteth his neyghbour secretly: And all the people shall say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 27:25	Cursed be he that taketh a reward to put to death innocent blood: And all the people shall say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 27:26	Cursed be he that confirmeth not all the wordes of this Law, to do them: And all the people shall say: So be it.
Deuteronomy 28:1	If thou shalt obey diligently the voyce of the Lord thy God, and obserue and do all his commandements, which I commande thee this day, then the Lord thy God wil set thee on high aboue all the nations of the earth.
Deuteronomy 28:2	And all these blessings shall come on thee, and ouertake thee, if thou shalt obey the voyce of the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 28:3	Blessed shalt thou be in the citie, and blessed also in the fielde.
Deuteronomy 28:4	Blessed shalbe the fruite of thy body, and ye fruite of thy ground, and the fruite of thy cattel, the increase of thy kine, and ye flocks of thy sheepe.
Deuteronomy 28:5	Blessed shalbe thy basket and thy dough.
Deuteronomy 28:6	Blessed shalt thou be, whe thou commest in, and blessed also when thou goest out.
Deuteronomy 28:7	The Lord shall cause thine enemies that rise against thee, to fall before thy face: they shall come out against thee one way, and shall flee before thee leuen wayes.
Deuteronomy 28:8	The Lord shall command the blessing to be with thee in thy store houses, and in all that thou settest thine hande to, and wil blesse thee in the land which the Lord thy God giueth thee.
Deuteronomy 28:9	The Lord shall make thee an holy people vnto himself, as he hath sworne vnto thee, if thou shalt keepe the commandements of the Lord thy God, and walke in his wayes.
Deuteronomy 28:10	Then all people of the earth shall see that the Name of the Lord is called vpon ouer thee, and they shalbe afrayde of thee.
Deuteronomy 28:11	And the Lord shall make thee plenteous in goods, in the fruite of thy body, and in the fruite of thy cattell, and in the fruite of thy grounde, in the land which the Lord sware vnto thy fathers, to giue thee.
Deuteronomy 28:12	The Lord shall open vnto thee his good treasure, euen the heauen to giue rayne vnto thy kind in due season, and to blesse all the worke of thine handes: and thou shalt lende vnto many nations, but shalt not borow thy selfe.
Deuteronomy 28:13	And the Lord shall make thee the head, and not the tayle, and thou shalt be aboue onely, and shalt not bee beneath, if thou obey the commandements of the Lord thy God, which I command thee this day, to keepe and to do them.
Deuteronomy 28:14	But thou shalt not decline from any of the wordes, which I command you this day, either to the right hand or to the left, to goe after other gods to serue them.
Deuteronomy 28:15	But if thou wilt not obey the voyce of the Lord thy God, to keepe and to do all his commandementes and his ordinances, which I command thee this day, then al these curses shall come vpon thee, and ouertake thee.
Deuteronomy 28:16	Cursed shalt thou bee in the towne, and cursed also in the fielde.
Deuteronomy 28:17	Cursed shall thy basket be, and thy dough.
Deuteronomy 28:18	Cursed shall be the fruite of thy body, and the fruite of thy land, the increase of thy kine, and the flockes of thy sheepe.
Deuteronomy 28:19	Cursed shalt thou be when thou commest in, and cursed also when thou goest out.
Deuteronomy 28:20	The Lord shall sende vpon thee cursing, trouble, and shame, in all that which thou settest thine hand to do, vntil thou be destroyed, and perish quickely, because of the wickednesse of thy workes whereby thou hast forsaken me.
Deuteronomy 28:21	The Lord shall make the pestilence cleaue vnto thee, vntill he hath consumed thee from the land, whither thou goest to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 28:22	The Lord shall smite thee with a consumption, and with the feuer, and with a burning ague, and with feruent heate, and with the sworde, and with blasting, and with the mildew, and they shall pursue thee vntill thou perish.
Deuteronomy 28:23	And thine heauen that is ouer thine head, shall be brasse, and the earth that is vnder thee, yron.
Deuteronomy 28:24	The Lord shall giue thee for the rayne of thy land, dust and ashes: euen from heauen shall it come downe vpon thee, vntil thou be destroyed.
Deuteronomy 28:25	And the Lord shall cause thee to fall before thine enemies: thou shalt come out one way against them, and shalt flee seuen wayes before them, and shalt be scattered through all the kingdomes of the earth.
Deuteronomy 28:26	And thy carkeis shall be meate vnto all foules of the ayre, and vnto the beasts of the earth, and none shall fray them away.
Deuteronomy 28:27	The Lord wil smite thee with the botch of Egypt, and with the emeroids, and with the skab, and with the itche, that thou canst not be healed.
Deuteronomy 28:28	And ye Lord shall smite thee with madnes, and with blindnes, and with astonying of heart.
Deuteronomy 28:29	Thou shalt also grope at noone daies, as the blinde gropeth in darknes, and shalt not prosper in thy wayes: thou shalt neuer but bee oppressed with wrong and be powled euermore, and no man shall succour thee.
Deuteronomy 28:30	Thou shalt betroth a wife, and another man shall lye with her: thou shalt builde an house, and shalt not dwell therein: thou shalt plant a vineyard, and shalt not eate the fruite.
Deuteronomy 28:31	Thine oxe shalbe slayne before thine eyes, and thou shalt not eate thereof: thine asse shall be violently taken away before thy face, and shall not be restored to thee: thy sheepe shalbe giuen vnto thine enemies, and no man shall rescue them for thee.
Deuteronomy 28:32	Thy sonnes and thy daughters shalbe giuen vnto another people, and thine eyes shall still looke for them, euen till they fall out, and there shalbe no power in thine hand.
Deuteronomy 28:33	The fruite of thy land and all thy labours shall a people, which thou knowest not, eate, and thou shalt neuer but suffer wrong, and violence alway:
Deuteronomy 28:34	So that thou shalt be madde for the sight which thine eyes shall see.
Deuteronomy 28:35	The Lord shall smite thee in the knees, and in the thighes, with a sore botche, that thou canst not be healed: euen from the sole of thy foote vnto the top of thine head.
Deuteronomy 28:36	The Lord shall bring thee and thy King (which thou shalt set ouer thee) vnto a nation, which neither thou nor thy fathers haue knowen, and there thou shalt serue other gods: euen wood and stone,
Deuteronomy 28:37	And thou shalt be a wonder, a prouerbe and a common talke among all people, whither the Lord shall carie thee.
Deuteronomy 28:38	Thou shalt carie out much seede into the fielde, and shalt gather but litle in: for the grashoppers shall destroy it.
Deuteronomy 28:39	Thou shalt plant a vineyard, and dresse it, but shalt neither drinke of the wine, nor gather the grapes: for the wormes shall eate it.
Deuteronomy 28:40	Thou shalt haue Oliue trees in all thy coastes, but shalt not anoynt thy selfe with the oyle: for thine oliues shall fall.
Deuteronomy 28:41	Thou shalt beget sonnes, and daughters, but shalt not haue them: for they shall goe into captiuitie.
Deuteronomy 28:42	All thy trees and fruite of thy land shall the grashopper consume.
Deuteronomy 28:43	The straunger that is among you, shall clime aboue thee vp on hie, and thou shalt come downe beneath alow.
Deuteronomy 28:44	He shall lend thee, and thou shalt not lend him: he shalbe the head, and thou shalt be ye tayle.
Deuteronomy 28:45	Moreouer, all these curses shall come vpon thee, and shall pursue thee and ouertake thee, till thou be destroyed, because thou obeyedst not the voyce of the Lord thy God, to keepe his commandements, and his ordinances, which he commanded thee:
Deuteronomy 28:46	And they shalbe vpon thee for signes and wonders, and vpon thy seede for euer,
Deuteronomy 28:47	Because thou seruedst not the Lord thy God with ioyfulnesse and with a good heart for the abundance of all things.
Deuteronomy 28:48	Therefore thou shalt serue thine enemies which the Lord shall send vpon thee, in hunger and in thirst, and in nakednesse, and in neede of all things? and he shall put a yoke of yron vpon thy necke vntill he haue destroyed thee.
Deuteronomy 28:49	The Lord shall bring a nation vpon thee from farre, euen from the ende of the world, flying swift as an Egle: a nation whose tongue thou shalt not vnderstand:
Deuteronomy 28:50	A nation of a fierce countenance, which will not regarde the person of the olde, nor haue compassion of the yong.
Deuteronomy 28:51	The same shall eate the fruit of thy cattell, and the fruite of thy land vntill thou be destroyed, and he shall leaue thee neyther wheate, wine, nor oyle, neither the increase of thy kyne, nor the flockes of thy sheepe, vntill he haue brought thee to nought.
Deuteronomy 28:52	And he shall besiege thee in all thy cities, vntill thine hie and strong walles fall downe, wherein thou trustedst in all the lande: and hee shall besiege thee in all thy cities throughout all thy lande, which the Lord thy God hath giuen thee.
Deuteronomy 28:53	And thou shalt eate the fruite of thy bodie: euen the flesh of thy sonnes and thy daughters, which the Lord thy God hath giuen thee, during the siege and straitnesse wherein thine enemie shall inclose thee:
Deuteronomy 28:54	So that the man (that is tender and exceeding deintie among you) shalbe grieued at his brother, and at his wife, that lieth in his bosome, and at the remnant of his children, which hee hath yet left,
Deuteronomy 28:55	For feare of giuing vnto any of them of the flesh of his children, whom he shall eate, because he hath nothing left him in that siege, and straitnesse, wherewith thine enemie shall besiege thee in all thy cities.
Deuteronomy 28:56	The tender and deintie woman among you, which neuer woulde venture to set the sole of her foote vpon the grounde (for her softnesse and tendernesse) shalbe grieued at her husband that lieth in her bosome, and at her sonne, and at her daughter,
Deuteronomy 28:57	And at her afterbirth (that shall come out from betweene her feete) and at her childre, which she shall beare: for when all things lacke, she shall eate them secretly, during the siege and straitnesse, wherewith thine enemie shall besiege thee in thy cities.
Deuteronomy 28:58	If thou wilt not keepe and doe all the wordes of the Lawe (that are written in this booke) and feare this glorious and feareful name The Lord Thy God,
Deuteronomy 28:59	The the Lord wil make thy plagues wonderfull, and the plagues of thy seede, euen great plagues and of long continuance, and sore diseases, and of long durance.
Deuteronomy 28:60	Moreouer, he will bring vpon thee all the diseases of Egypt, whereof thou wast afraide, and they shall cleaue vnto thee.
Deuteronomy 28:61	And euery sickenesse, and euery plague, which is not written in the booke of this Lawe, will the Lord heape vpon thee, vntill thou be destroyed.
Deuteronomy 28:62	And ye shall be left few in nomber, where ye were as the starres of heauen in multitude, because thou wouldest not obey the voyce of the Lord thy God.
Deuteronomy 28:63	And as the Lord hath reioyced ouer you, to doe you good, and to multiply you, so he will reioyce ouer you, to destroy you, and bring you to nought, and ye shalbe rooted out of the land, whither thou goest to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 28:64	And the Lord shall scatter thee among all people, from the one ende of the worlde vnto the other, and there thou shalt serue other gods, which thou hast not knowen nor thy fathers, euen wood and stone.
Deuteronomy 28:65	Also among these nations thou shalt finde no rest, neither shall the sole of thy foote haue rest: for the Lord shall giue thee there a trembling heart, and looking to returne till thine eyes fall out, and a sorowfull minde.
Deuteronomy 28:66	And thy life shall hang before thee, and thou shalt feare both night and day, and shalt haue none assurance of thy life.
Deuteronomy 28:67	In the morning thou shalt say, Woulde God it were euening, and at the euening thou shalt say, Would God it were morning, for ye feare of thine heart, which thou shalt feare, and for the sight of thine eyes, which thou shalt see.
Deuteronomy 28:68	And the Lord shall bring thee into Egypt againe with shippes by the way, whereof I saide vnto thee, Thou shalt see it no more againe: and there yee shall sell your selues vnto your enemies for bondmen and bondwomen, and there shalbe no byer.
Deuteronomy 29:1	These are the wordes of the couenant which the Lord commanded Moses to make with the children of Israel in the lande of Moab beside the couenant which hee had made with them in Horeb.
Deuteronomy 29:2	And Moses called all Israel, and said vnto them, Ye haue seene all that the Lord did before your eyes in the lande of Egypt vnto Pharaoh and vnto all his seruantes, and vnto all his lande,
Deuteronomy 29:3	The great tentations which thine eyes haue seene, those great miracles and wonders:
Deuteronomy 29:4	Yet the Lord hath not giuen you an heart to perceiue, and eyes to see, and eares to heare, vnto this day.
Deuteronomy 29:5	And I haue led you fourty yere in the wildernesse: your clothes are not waxed olde vpon you, neyther is thy shooe waxed olde vpon thy foote.
Deuteronomy 29:6	Ye haue eaten no bread, neither drunke wine, nor strong drinke, that ye might know how that I am the Lord your God.
Deuteronomy 29:7	After, ye came vnto this place, and Sihon King of Heshbon, and Og King of Bashan came out against vs vnto battell, and we slewe them,
Deuteronomy 29:8	And tooke their lande, and gaue it for an inheritance vnto the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the halfe tribe of Manasseh.
Deuteronomy 29:9	Keepe therefore the wordes of this couenant and doe them, that ye may prosper in all that ye shall doe.
Deuteronomy 29:10	Ye stand this day euery one of you before the Lord your God: your heads of your tribes, your Elders and your officers, eue al ye me of Israel:
Deuteronomy 29:11	Your children, your wiues, and thy stranger that is in thy campe from the hewer of thy wood, vnto the drawer of thy water,
Deuteronomy 29:12	That thou shouldest passe into the couenant of the Lord thy God, and into his othe which the Lord thy God maketh with thee this day,
Deuteronomy 29:13	For to establish thee this day a people vnto him selfe, and that he may be vnto thee a God, as he hath said vnto thee, and as he hath sworne vnto thy fathers, Abraham, Izhak, and Iaakob.
Deuteronomy 29:14	Neither make I this couenant, and this othe with you onely,
Deuteronomy 29:15	But aswel with him that standeth here with vs this day before the Lord our God, as with him that is not here with vs this day.
Deuteronomy 29:16	For ye knowe, how we haue dwelt in the land of Egypt, and how we passed thorowe the middes of the nations, which ye passed by.
Deuteronomy 29:17	And ye haue seene their abominations and their idoles (wood, and stone, siluer and golde) which were among them,
Deuteronomy 29:18	That there should not be among you man nor woman, nor familie, nor tribe, which should turne his heart away this day from the Lord our God, to goe and serue the gods of these nations, and that there shoulde not be among you any roote that bringeth forth gall and wormewood,
Deuteronomy 29:19	So that when he heareth the words of this curse, he blesse him selfe in his heart, saying, I shall haue peace, although I walke according to the stubburnes of mine owne heart, thus adding drunkennesse to thirst.
Deuteronomy 29:20	The Lord will not be mercifull vnto him, but then the wrath of the Lord and his ielousie shall smoke against that man, and euery curse that is written in this booke, shall light vpon him, and the Lord shall put out his name from vnder heauen,
Deuteronomy 29:21	And the Lord shall separate him vnto euil out of all the tribes of Israel, according vnto all the curses of the couenant, that is written in the booke of this Lawe.
Deuteronomy 29:22	So that the generatio to come, euen your children, that shall rise vp after you, and the stranger, that shall come from a farre lande, shall say, when they shall see the plagues of this lande, and the diseases thereof, wherewith the Lord shall smite it:
Deuteronomy 29:23	(For all that land shall burne with brimstone and salt: it shall not be sowen, nor bring forth, nor any grasse shall growe therein, like as in the ouerthrowing of Sodom, and Gomorah, Admah, and Zeboim, which the Lord ouerthrewe in his wrath and in his anger)
Deuteronomy 29:24	Then shall all nations say, Wherefore hath the Lord done thus vnto this lande? how fierce is this great wrath?
Deuteronomy 29:25	And they shall answere, Because they haue forsaken the couenant of the Lord God of their fathers, which he had made with them, when he brought them out of the land of Egypt,
Deuteronomy 29:26	And went and serued other gods and worshipped them: euen gods which they knewe not, and which had giuen them nothing,
Deuteronomy 29:27	Therefore the wrath of the Lord waxed hot against this land, to bring vpon it euery curse that is written in this booke.
Deuteronomy 29:28	And ye Lord hath rooted them out of their land in anger, and in wrath, and in great indignation, and hath cast them into another land, as appeareth this day.
Deuteronomy 29:29	The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things reueiled belong vnto vs, and to our children for euer, that we may doe all the wordes of this Lawe.
Deuteronomy 30:1	Nowe when all these things shall come vpon thee, either the blessing or the curse which I haue set before thee, and thou shalt turne into thine heart, among all the nations whither the Lord thy God hath driuen thee,
Deuteronomy 30:2	And shalt returne vnto the Lord thy God, and obey his voyce in all that I commaund thee this day: thou, and thy children with all thine heart and with all thy soule,
Deuteronomy 30:3	Then the Lord thy God wil cause thy captiues to returne, and haue compassion vpon thee, and wil returne, to gather thee out of all the people, where the Lord thy God had scattered thee.
Deuteronomy 30:4	Though thou werest cast vnto the vtmost part of heauen, from thence will the Lord thy God gather thee, and from thence wil he take thee,
Deuteronomy 30:5	And the Lord thy God will bring thee into the land which thy fathers possessed, and thou shalt possesse it, and he will shewe thee fauour, and will multiplie thee aboue thy fathers.
Deuteronomy 30:6	And the Lord thy God will circumcise thine heart, and the heart of thy seede, that thou mayest loue the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with al thy soule, that thou maiest liue.
Deuteronomy 30:7	And the Lord thy God will lay all these curses vpon thine enemies, and on them, that hate thee, and that persecute thee.
Deuteronomy 30:8	Returne thou therefore, and obey the voyce of the Lord, and do all his commandements, which I commaund thee this day.
Deuteronomy 30:9	And the Lord thy God will make thee plenteous in euery worke of thine hande, in the fruite of thy bodie, and in the fruite of thy cattel, and in the fruite of the lande for thy wealth: for the Lord will turne againe, and reioyce ouer thee to do thee good, as he reioyced ouer thy fathers,
Deuteronomy 30:10	Because thou shalt obey the voyce of the Lord thy God, in keeping his comandements, and his ordinances, which are written in the booke of this Law, when thou shalt returne vnto the Lord thy God with all thine heart and with al thy soule.
Deuteronomy 30:11	For this commandement which I commande thee this day, is not hid from thee, neither is it farre off.
Deuteronomy 30:12	It is not in heauen, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go vp for vs to heauen, and bring it vs, and cause vs to heare it, that we may doe it?
Deuteronomy 30:13	Neither is it beyonde the sea, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go ouer the sea for vs, and bring it vs, and cause vs to heare it, that we may do it?
Deuteronomy 30:14	But the word is very neere vnto thee: euen in thy mouth and in thine heart, for to do it.
Deuteronomy 30:15	Beholde, I haue set before thee this day life and good, death and euill,
Deuteronomy 30:16	In that I commaund thee this day, to loue the Lord thy God, to walke in his wayes, and to keepe his commandements, and his ordinances, and his lawes, that thou mayest liue, and be multiplied, and that the Lord thy God may blesse thee in the land, whither thou goest to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 30:17	But if thine heart turne away, so that thou wilt not obey, but shalt be seduced and worship other gods, and serue them,
Deuteronomy 30:18	I pronounce vnto you this day, that ye shall surely perish, ye shall not prolong your dayes in the lande, whither thou passest ouer Iorden to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 30:19	I call heauen and earth to recorde this day against you, that I haue set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. therefore chuse life, that both thou and thy seede may liue,
Deuteronomy 30:20	By louing the Lord thy God, by obeying his voyce, and by cleauing vnto him: for he is thy life, and the length of thy dayes: that thou mayest dwell in the lande which the Lord sware vnto thy fathers, Abraham, Izhak, and Iaakob, to giue them.
Deuteronomy 31:1	Then Moses went and spake these wordes vnto all Israel,
Deuteronomy 31:2	And said vnto them, I am an hundreth and twentie yeere olde this day: I can no more goe out and in: also the Lord hath saide vnto me, Thou shalt not goe ouer this Iorden.
Deuteronomy 31:3	The Lord thy God he will go ouer before thee: he will destroy these nations before thee, and thou shalt possesse them. Ioshua, he shall goe before thee, as the Lord hath said.
Deuteronomy 31:4	And the Lord shall doe vnto them, as he did to Sihon and to Og Kings of the Amorites: and vnto their lande whome he destroyed.
Deuteronomy 31:5	And the Lord shall giue them before you that ye may do vnto them according vnto euery commandement, which I haue comanded you.
Deuteronomy 31:6	Plucke vp your hearts therefore, and be strong: dread not, nor be afraid of them: for the Lord thy God him selfe doeth goe with thee: he will not faile thee, nor forsake thee.
Deuteronomy 31:7	And Moses called Ioshua, and said vnto him in the sight of all Israel, Be of a good courage and strong: for thou shalt go with this people vnto the lande which the Lord hath sworne vnto their fathers, to giue them, and thou shalt giue it them to inherite.
Deuteronomy 31:8	And the Lord him selfe doeth go before thee: he will be with thee: he will not faile thee, neither forsake thee: feare not therefore, nor be discomforted.
Deuteronomy 31:9	And Moses wrote this Lawe, and deliuered it vnto the Priestes the sonnes of Leui (which bare the Arke of the couenant of the Lord) and vnto all the Elders of Israel,
Deuteronomy 31:10	And Moses commanded them, saying, Euery seuenth yeere when the yeere of freedome shalbe in the feast of the Tabernacles:
Deuteronomy 31:11	When all Israel shall come to appeare before the Lord thy God, in the place which he shall chuse, thou shalt reade this Lawe before all Israel that they may heare it.
Deuteronomy 31:12	Gather the people together: men, and women, and children, and thy stranger that is within thy gates, that they may heare, and that they may learne, and feare the Lord your God, and keepe and obserue all the wordes of this Lawe,
Deuteronomy 31:13	And that their children which haue not knowen it, may heare it, and learne to feare the Lord your God, as long as ye liue in the lande, whither ye goe ouer Iorden to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 31:14	Then the Lord saide vnto Moses, Beholde, thy dayes are come, that thou must die: Call Ioshua, and stande ye in the Tabernacle of the Congregation that I may giue him a charge. So Moses and Ioshua went, and stoode in the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Deuteronomy 31:15	And the Lord appeared in the Tabernacle, in the pillar of a cloude: and the pillar of the cloude stoode ouer the doore of the Tabernacle.
Deuteronomy 31:16	And the Lord said vnto Moses, Behold, thou shalt sleepe with thy fathers, and this people will rise vp, and goe a whoring after the gods of a strange land (whither they goe to dwell therein) and will forsake me, and breake my couenant which I haue made with them.
Deuteronomy 31:17	Wherefore my wrath will waxe hote against them at that day, and I will forsake them, and will hide my face from them: then they shalbe consumed, and many aduersities and tribulations shall come vpon them: so then they will say, Are not these troubles come vpon me, because God is not with me?
Deuteronomy 31:18	But I will surely hide my face in that day, because of all the euill, which they shall commit, in that they are turned vnto other gods.
Deuteronomy 31:19	Now therefore write ye this song for you, and teach it the children of Israel: put it in their mouthes, that this song may be my witnesse against the children of Israel.
Deuteronomy 31:20	For I will bring them into the land (which I sware vnto their fathers) that floweth with milke and honie, and they shall eate, and fil them selues, and waxe fat: then shall they turne vnto other gods, and serue them, and contemne me, and breake my couenant.
Deuteronomy 31:21	And then when many aduersities and tribulations shall come vpon them, this song shall answere them to their face as a witnesse: for it shall not be forgotte out of the mouthes of their posteritie: for I knowe their imagination, which they goe about euen now, before I haue brought them into the lande which I sware.
Deuteronomy 31:22	Moses therefore wrote this song the same day and taught it the children of Israel.
Deuteronomy 31:23	And God gaue Ioshua the sonne of Nun a charge, and said, Be strong, and of a good courage: for thou shalt bring the children of Israel into the lande, which I sware vnto them, and I will be with thee.
Deuteronomy 31:24	And when Moses had made an ende of writing the wordes of this Lawe in a booke vntill he had finished them,
Deuteronomy 31:25	Then Moses commanded the Leuites, which bare the Arke of the couenant of the Lord, saying,
Deuteronomy 31:26	Take the booke of this Lawe, and put ye it in the side of the Arke of the couenant of the Lord your God, that it may be there for a witnes against thee.
Deuteronomy 31:27	For I knowe thy rebellion and thy stiffe necke: beholde, I being yet aliue with you this day, ye are rebellious against the Lord: howe much more then after my death?
Deuteronomy 31:28	Gather vnto me all the Elders of your tribes, and your officers, that I may speake these wordes in their audience, and call heauen and earth to recorde against them.
Deuteronomy 31:29	For I am sure that after my death ye will vtterly be corrupt and turne from the way, which I haue commanded you: therefore euill will come vpon you at the length, because ye will comit euill in the sight of the Lord, by prouoking him to anger through the worke of your hands.
Deuteronomy 31:30	Thus Moses spake in the audience of all the congregation of Israel the wordes of this song, vntill he had ended them.
Deuteronomy 32:1	Hearken, ye heauens, and I will speake: and let the earth heare the words of my mouth.
Deuteronomy 32:2	My doctrine shall drop as the raine, and my speach shall stil as the dew, as the showre vpon the herbes, and as the great raine vpon the grasse.
Deuteronomy 32:3	For I will publish the name of the Lord: giue ye glorie vnto our God.
Deuteronomy 32:4	Perfect is the worke of the mighty God: for all his wayes are iudgement. God is true, and without wickednesse: iust, and righteous is he.
Deuteronomy 32:5	They haue corrupted them selues towarde him by their vice, not being his children, but a frowarde and crooked generation.
Deuteronomy 32:6	Doe ye so rewarde the Lord, O foolish people and vnwise? is not he thy father, that hath bought thee? he hath made thee, and proportioned thee.
Deuteronomy 32:7	Remember the dayes of olde: consider the yeeres of so many generations: aske thy father, and he will shewe thee: thine Elders, and they will tell thee.
Deuteronomy 32:8	When the most hie God deuided to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sonnes of Adam, he appoynted the borders of the people, according to the nomber of the children of Israel.
Deuteronomy 32:9	For the Lordes portion is his people: Iaakob is the lot of his inheritance.
Deuteronomy 32:10	He found him in ye land of ye wildernes, in a waste, and roaring wildernes: he led him about, he taught him, and kept him as ye apple of his eye.
Deuteronomy 32:11	As an eagle stereth vp her nest, flootereth ouer her birdes, stretcheth out her wings, taketh them, and beareth them on her wings,
Deuteronomy 32:12	So the Lord alone led him, and there was no strange god with him.
Deuteronomy 32:13	He caryed him vp to the hie places of the earth, that he might eate the fruites of the fieldes, and he caused him to sucke hony out of the stone, and oyle out of the hard rocke:
Deuteronomy 32:14	Butter of kine, and milke of sheepe with fat of the lambes, and rammes fed in Bashan, and goates, with the fat of the graines of wheat, and the red licour of the grape hast thou drunke.
Deuteronomy 32:15	But he that should haue bene vpright, when he waxed fat, spurned with his heele: thou art fat, thou art grosse, thou art laden with fatnes: therefore he forsooke God that made him, and regarded not the strong God of his saluation.
Deuteronomy 32:16	They prouoked him with strange gods: they prouoked him to anger with abominations.
Deuteronomy 32:17	They offred vnto deuils, not to God, but to gods whome they knew not: new gods that came newly vp, whome their fathers feared not.
Deuteronomy 32:18	Thou hast forgotten the mightie God that begate thee, and hast forgotten God that formed thee.
Deuteronomy 32:19	The Lord then sawe it, and was angrie, for the prouocation of his sonnes and of his daughters.
Deuteronomy 32:20	And he said, I will hide my face from the: I will see what their ende shalbe: for they are a frowarde generation, children in who is no faith.
Deuteronomy 32:21	They haue moued me to ielousie with that which is not God: they haue prouoked me to anger with their vanities: and I will moue them to ielousie with those which are no people: I wil prouoke them to anger with a foolish nation.
Deuteronomy 32:22	For fire is kindled in my wrath, and shall burne vnto the bottome of hell, and shall consume the earth with her increase, and set on fire the foundations of the mountaines.
Deuteronomy 32:23	I will spend plagues vpon them: I will bestowe mine arrowes vpon them.
Deuteronomy 32:24	They shalbe burnt with hunger, and consumed with heate, and with bitter destruction: I will also sende the teeth of beastes vpon them, with the venime of serpents creeping in the dust.
Deuteronomy 32:25	The sworde shall kill them without, and in the chambers feare: both the yong man and the yong woman, the suckeling with the man of gray heare.
Deuteronomy 32:26	I haue said, I would scatter them abroade: I would make their remembrance to cease from among men,
Deuteronomy 32:27	Saue that I feared the furie of the enemie, least their aduersaries should waxe proude, and least they should say, Our hie hande and not the Lord hath done all this:
Deuteronomy 32:28	For they are a nation voide of counsel, neither is there any vnderstanding in them.
Deuteronomy 32:29	Oh that they were wise, then they would vnderstand this: they would consider their latter ende.
Deuteronomy 32:30	How should one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousande to flight, except their strong God had sold the, and the Lord had shut them vp?
Deuteronomy 32:31	For their god is not as our God, euen our enemies being iudges.
Deuteronomy 32:32	For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, and of the vines of Gomorah: their grapes are grapes of gall, their clusters be bitter.
Deuteronomy 32:33	Their wine is the poyson of dragons, and the cruel gall of aspes.
Deuteronomy 32:34	Is not this laide in store with me, and sealed vp among my treasures?
Deuteronomy 32:35	Vengeance and recompence are mine: their foote shall slide in due time: for the day of their destruction is at hand, and the things that shall come vpon them, make haste.
Deuteronomy 32:36	For the Lord shall iudge his people, and repent towarde his seruants, when hee seeth that their power is gone, and none shut vp in holde nor left abroad.
Deuteronomy 32:37	When men shall say, Where are their gods, their mighty God in whome they trusted,
Deuteronomy 32:38	Which did eate the fat of their sacrifices, and did drinke the wine of their drinke offring? let them rise vp, and help you: let him be your refuge.
Deuteronomy 32:39	Behold now, for I, I am he, and there is no gods with me: I kill, and giue life: I wound, and I make whole: neither is there any that can deliuer out of mine hand.
Deuteronomy 32:40	For I lift vp mine hand to heauen, and say, I liue for euer.
Deuteronomy 32:41	If I whet my glittering sworde, and mine hand take holde on iudgement, I will execute vengeance on mine enemies, and will rewarde them that hate me.
Deuteronomy 32:42	I will make mine arrowes drunke with blood, (and my sword shall eate flesh) for the blood of the slaine, and of the captiues, when I beginne to take vengeance of the enemie.
Deuteronomy 32:43	Ye nations, praise his people: for he will auenge the blood of his seruants, and will execute vengeance vpon his aduersaries, and will bee mercifull vnto his lande, and to his people.
Deuteronomy 32:44	Then Moses came and spake all ye words of this song in the audience of the people, he and Hoshea the sonne of Nun.
Deuteronomy 32:45	When Moses had made an end of speaking all these wordes to all Israel,
Deuteronomy 32:46	Then hee said vnto them, Set your heartes vnto all the wordes which I testifie against you this day, that ye may commande them vnto your children, that they may obserue and doo all the wordes of this Lawe.
Deuteronomy 32:47	For it is no vaine worde concerning you, but it is your life, and by this worde ye shall prolong your dayes in the land, whither yee go ouer Iorden to possesse it.
Deuteronomy 32:48	And the Lord spake vnto Moses the selfe same day, saying,
Deuteronomy 32:49	Goe vp into the mountaine of Abarim, vnto the mount Nebo, which is in the lande of Moab, that is ouer against Iericho: and beholde the lande of Canaan, which I giue vnto the children of Israel for a possession,
Deuteronomy 32:50	And die in the mount which thou goest vp vnto, and thou shalt be gathered vnto thy people, as Aaron thy brother died in mount Hor, and was gathered vnto his people,
Deuteronomy 32:51	Because ye trespassed against me among the children of Israel, at the waters of Meribah, at Kadesh in the wildernesse of Zin: for ye sanctified me not among the children of Israel.
Deuteronomy 32:52	Thou shalt therefore see the lande before thee, but shalt not go thither, I meane, into the land which I giue the children of Israel.
Deuteronomy 33:1	Nowe this is the blessing wherewith Moses the man of God blessed the children of Israel before his death, and said,
Deuteronomy 33:2	The Lord came from Sinai, and rose vp from Seir vnto them, and appeared clearely from mount Paran, and he came with ten thousands of Saints, and at his right hand a firie Lawe for them.
Deuteronomy 33:3	Though hee loue the people, yet all thy Saints are in thine handes: and they are humbled at thy foete, to receiue thy words.
Deuteronomy 33:4	Moses commanded vs a Lawe for an inheritance of the Congregation of Iaakob.
Deuteronomy 33:5	Then he was among the righteous people, as King, when the heades of the people, and the tribes of Israel were assembled.
Deuteronomy 33:6	Let Reuben liue, and not die, though his men be a small nomber.
Deuteronomy 33:7	And thus he blessed Iudah, and said, Heare, O Lord, the voyce of Iudah, and bring him vnto his people: his hands shalbe sufficient for him, if thou helpe him against his enemies.
Deuteronomy 33:8	And of Leui he said, Let thy Thummim and thine Vrim be with thine Holy one, whome thou diddest proue in Massah, and didst cause him to striue at the waters of Meribah.
Deuteronomy 33:9	Who said vnto his father and to his mother, I haue not seene him, neither knewe he his brethren, nor knewe his owne children: for they obserued thy word, and kept thy couenant.
Deuteronomy 33:10	They shall teach Iaakob thy iudgements, and Israel thy Lawe: they shall put incense before thy face, and the burnt offring vpon thine altar.
Deuteronomy 33:11	Blesse, O Lord, his substance, and accept the worke of his handes: smite through ye loynes of them that rise against him, and of them that hate him, that they rise not againe.
Deuteronomy 33:12	Of Beniamin he said, The beloued of the Lord shall dwell in safetie by him: the Lord shall couer him all the day long, and dwell betweene his shoulders.
Deuteronomy 33:13	And of Ioseph hee sayde, Blessed of the Lord is his land for the sweetenesse of heauen, for the dewe, and for the depth lying beneath,
Deuteronomy 33:14	And for the sweete increase of the sunne, and for the sweete increase of the moone,
Deuteronomy 33:15	And for the sweetenes of the top of the ancient mountaines, and for the sweetenes of the olde hilles,
Deuteronomy 33:16	And for the sweetenesse of the earth, and abundance thereof: and the good will of him that dwelt in the bushe, shall come vpon the head of Ioseph, and vpon the toppe of the head of him that was separated from his brethren.
Deuteronomy 33:17	His beautie shalbe like his first borne bullock, and his hornes as the hornes of an vnicorne: with them hee shall smite the people together, euen the endes of the world: these are also the ten thousands of Ephraim, and these are the thousands of Manasseh.
Deuteronomy 33:18	And of Zebulun he sayd, Reioice, Zebulun, in thy going out, and thou Isshachar in thy tents.
Deuteronomy 33:19	They shall call ye people vnto the mountaine: there they shall offer the sacrifices of righteousnesse: for they shall sucke of the abundance of the sea, and of the treasures hid in the sand.
Deuteronomy 33:20	Also of Gad he said, Blessed be hee that enlargeth Gad: he dwelleth as a lion, that catcheth for his praye the arme with the head.
Deuteronomy 33:21	And hee looked to himselfe at the beginning, because there was a portion of the Lawe-giuer hid: yet hee shall come with the heades of the people, to execute the iustice of the Lord, and his iudgements with Israel.
Deuteronomy 33:22	And of Dan he said, Dan is a lions whelp: he shall leape from Bashan.
Deuteronomy 33:23	Also of Naphtali he sayd, O Naphtali, satisfied with fauour, and filled with the blessing of the Lord, possesse the West and the South.
Deuteronomy 33:24	And of Asher he saide, Asher shalbe blessed with children: he shalbe acceptable vnto his brethren, and shall dippe his foote in oyle.
Deuteronomy 33:25	Thy shooes shalbe yron and brasse, and thy strength shall continue as long as thou liuest.
Deuteronomy 33:26	There is none like God, O righteous people, which rideth vpon the heauens for thine helpe, and on the cloudes in his glory.
Deuteronomy 33:27	The eternall God is thy refuge, and vnder his armes thou art for euer: hee shall cast out the enemie before thee, and will say, Destroy them.
Deuteronomy 33:28	Then Israel the fountaine of Iaakob shall dwell alone in safetie in a lande of wheat, and wine: also his heauens shall drop the dewe.
Deuteronomy 33:29	Blessed art thou, O Israel: who is like vnto thee, O people saued by the Lord, the shielde of thine helpe, and which is the sword of thy glorie? therefore thine enemies shall bee in subiection to thee, and thou shalt tread vpon their hie places.
Deuteronomy 34:1	Then Moses went from the plaine of Moab vp into mount Nebo vnto the top of Pisgah that is ouer against Iericho: and the Lord shewed him all the land of Gilead, vnto Dan,
Deuteronomy 34:2	And all Naphtali and the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, and all the land of Iudah, vnto the vtmost sea:
Deuteronomy 34:3	And the South, and the plaine of the valley of Iericho, the citie of palmetrees, vnto Zoar.
Deuteronomy 34:4	And the Lord said vnto him, This is the lande which I sware vnto Abraham, to Izhak and to Iaacob saying, I will giue it vnto thy seede: I haue caused thee to see it with thine eyes, but thou shalt not goe ouer thither.
Deuteronomy 34:5	So Moses the seruant of the Lord dyed there in the land of Moab, according to the worde of the Lord.
Deuteronomy 34:6	And hee buried him in a valley in the land of Moab ouer against Beth-peor, but no man knoweth of his sepulchre vnto this day.
Deuteronomy 34:7	Moses was nowe an hundreth and twentie yeere olde when hee died, his eye was not dimme, nor his naturall force abated.
Deuteronomy 34:8	And the children of Israel wept for Moses in the plaine of Moab thirtie dayes: so the dayes of weeping and mourning for Moses were ended.
Deuteronomy 34:9	And Ioshua the sonne of Nun was full of ye spirit of wisedome: for Moses had put his hands vpon him. And the children of Israel were obedient vnto him, and did as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Deuteronomy 34:10	But there arose not a Prophet since in Israel like vnto Moses (whome the Lord knew face to face)
Deuteronomy 34:11	In all ye miracles and wonders which ye Lord sent him to do in ye land of Egypt before Pharaoh and before all his seruantes, and before al his land,
Deuteronomy 34:12	And in all that mightie hand and all that great feare, which Moses wrought in the sight of all Israel.

===== BOOK: Ecclesiastes =====
Ecclesiastes 1:1	The wordes of the Preacher, the sonne of Dauid King in Ierusalem.
Ecclesiastes 1:2	Vanitie of vanities, sayth the Preacher: vanitie of vanities, all is vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 1:3	What remaineth vnto man in all his trauaile, which he suffereth vnder ye sunne?
Ecclesiastes 1:4	One generation passeth, and another generation succeedeth: but the earth remaineth for euer.
Ecclesiastes 1:5	The sunne riseth, and ye sunne goeth downe, and draweth to his place, where he riseth.
Ecclesiastes 1:6	The winde goeth toward the South, and compasseth towarde the North: the winde goeth rounde about, and returneth by his circuites.
Ecclesiastes 1:7	All the riuers goe into the sea, yet the sea is not full: for the riuers goe vnto ye place, whence they returne, and goe.
Ecclesiastes 1:8	All things are full of labour: man cannot vtter it: the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the eare filled with hearing.
Ecclesiastes 1:9	What is it that hath bene? that that shalbe: and what is it that hath bene done? that which shalbe done: and there is no newe thing vnder the sunne.
Ecclesiastes 1:10	Is there any thing, whereof one may say, Beholde this, it is newe? it hath bene already in the olde time that was before vs.
Ecclesiastes 1:11	There is no memorie of the former, neither shall there be a remembrance of the latter that shalbe, with them that shall come after.
Ecclesiastes 1:12	I the Preacher haue bene King ouer Israel in Ierusalem:
Ecclesiastes 1:13	And I haue giuen mine heart to search and finde out wisdome by all things that are done vnder the heauen: (this sore trauaile hath GOD giuen to the sonnes of men, to humble them thereby)
Ecclesiastes 1:14	I haue considered all the workes that are done vnder the sunne, and beholde, all is vanitie, and vexation of the spirit.
Ecclesiastes 1:15	That which is crooked, can none make straight: and that which faileth, cannot be nombred.
Ecclesiastes 1:16	I thought in mine heart, and said, Behold, I am become great, and excell in wisdome all them that haue bene before me in Ierusalem: and mine heart hath seene much wisedome and knowledge.
Ecclesiastes 1:17	And I gaue mine heart to knowe wisdome and knowledge, madnes and foolishnes: I knew also that this is a vexation of the spirit.
Ecclesiastes 1:18	For in the multitude of wisedome is much griefe: and he that increaseth knowledge, increaseth sorowe.
Ecclesiastes 2:1	I said in mine heart, Goe to nowe, I will proue thee with ioy: therefore take thou pleasure in pleasant things: and beholde, this also is vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 2:2	I saide of laughter, Thou art mad: and of ioy, What is this that thou doest?
Ecclesiastes 2:3	I sought in mine heart to giue my selfe to wine, and to leade mine heart in wisdome, and to take holde of follie, till I might see where is that goodnesse of the children of men, which they enioy vnder the sunne: the whole nomber of the dayes of their life.
Ecclesiastes 2:4	I haue made my great workes: I haue built me houses: I haue planted me vineyards.
Ecclesiastes 2:5	I haue made me gardens and orchards, and planted in them trees of all fruite.
Ecclesiastes 2:6	I haue made me cisternes of water, to water therewith the woods that growe with trees.
Ecclesiastes 2:7	I haue gotten seruants and maides, and had children borne in the house: also I had great possession of beeues and sheepe aboue all that were before me in Ierusalem.
Ecclesiastes 2:8	I haue gathered vnto me also siluer and gold, and the chiefe treasures of Kings and prouinces: I haue prouided me men singers and women singers, and the delites of the sonnes of men, as a woman taken captiue, and women taken captiues.
Ecclesiastes 2:9	And I was great, and increased aboue all that were before me in Ierusalem: also my wisedome remained with me.
Ecclesiastes 2:10	And whatsoeuer mine eyes desired, I withheld it not from them: I withdrew not mine heart from any ioy: for mine heart reioyced in al my labour: and this was my portion of all my trauaile.
Ecclesiastes 2:11	Then I looked on all my workes that mine hands had wrought, and on the trauaile that I had laboured to doe: and beholde, all is vanitie and vexation of the spirit: and there is no profite vnder the sunne.
Ecclesiastes 2:12	And I turned to beholde wisedome, and madnes and follie: (for who is the man that will come after the King in things, which men nowe haue done?)
Ecclesiastes 2:13	Then I saw that there is profite in wisdome, more then in follie: as the light is more excellent then darkenes.
Ecclesiastes 2:14	For the wise mans eyes are in his head, but the foole walketh in darknes: yet I know also that the same condition falleth to them all.
Ecclesiastes 2:15	Then I thought in mine heart, It befalleth vnto me, as it befalleth to ye foole. Why therefore doe I then labour to be more wise? And I sayd in mine heart, that this also is vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 2:16	For there shalbe no remembrance of the wise, nor of the foole for euer: for that that now is, in the dayes to come shall all be forgotten. And howe dyeth the wise man, as doeth the foole?
Ecclesiastes 2:17	Therefore I hated life: for the worke that is wrought vnder the sunne is grieuous vnto me: for all is vanitie, and vexation of the spirit.
Ecclesiastes 2:18	I hated also all my labour, wherein I had trauailed vnder the sunne, which I shall leaue to the man that shalbe after me.
Ecclesiastes 2:19	And who knoweth whether he shalbe wise or foolish? yet shall hee haue rule ouer all my labour, wherein I haue trauailed, and wherein I haue shewed my selfe wise vnder the sunne. This is also vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 2:20	Therefore I went about to make mine heart abhorre all the labour, wherein I had trauailed vnder the sunne.
Ecclesiastes 2:21	For there is a man whose trauaile is in wisdome, and in knowledge and in equitie: yet to a man that hath not trauailed herein, shall he giue his portion: this also is vanitie and a great griefe.
Ecclesiastes 2:22	For what hath man of all his trauaile and griefe of his heart, wherein he hath trauailed vnder the sunne?
Ecclesiastes 2:23	For all his dayes are sorowes, and his trauaile griefe: his heart also taketh not rest in the night: which also is vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 2:24	There is no profit to man: but that he eate, and drinke, and delight his soule with the profit of his labour: I saw also this, that it was of the hand of God.
Ecclesiastes 2:25	For who could eate, and who could haste to outward things more then I?
Ecclesiastes 2:26	Surely to a man that is good in his sight, God giueth wisdome, and knowledge, and ioy: but to the sinner he giueth paine, to gather, and to heape to giue to him that is good before God: this is also vanitie, and vexation of the spirit.
Ecclesiastes 3:1	To all things there is an appointed time, and a time to euery purpose vnder the heauen.
Ecclesiastes 3:2	A time to bee borne, and a time to die: a time to plant, and a time to plucke vp that which is planted.
Ecclesiastes 3:3	A time to slay, and a time to heale: a time to breake downe, and a time to builde.
Ecclesiastes 3:4	A time to weepe, and a time to laugh: a time to mourne, and a time to dance.
Ecclesiastes 3:5	A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones: a time to embrace, and a time to be farre from embracing.
Ecclesiastes 3:6	A time to seeke, and a time to lose: a time to keepe, and a time to cast away.
Ecclesiastes 3:7	A time to rent, and a time to sowe: a time to keepe silence, and a time to speake.
Ecclesiastes 3:8	A time to loue, and a time to hate: a time of warre, and a time of peace.
Ecclesiastes 3:9	What profite hath hee that worketh of the thing wherein he trauaileth?
Ecclesiastes 3:10	I haue seene the trauaile that God hath giuen to ye sonnes of men to humble them thereby.
Ecclesiastes 3:11	He hath made euery thing beautifull in his time: also he hath set the worlde in their heart, yet can not man finde out the worke that God hath wrought from the beginning euen to the end.
Ecclesiastes 3:12	I know that there is nothing good in them, but to reioyce, and to doe good in his life.
Ecclesiastes 3:13	And also that euery man eateth and drinketh, and seeth the commoditie of all his labour. this is the gift of God.
Ecclesiastes 3:14	I knowe that whatsoeuer God shall doe, it shalbe for euer: to it can no man adde, and from it can none diminish: for God hath done it, that they should feare before him.
Ecclesiastes 3:15	What is that that hath bene? that is nowe: and that that shalbe, hath now bene: for God requireth that which is past.
Ecclesiastes 3:16	And moreouer I haue seene vnder the sunne the place of iudgement, where was wickednesse, and the place of iustice where was iniquitie.
Ecclesiastes 3:17	I thought in mine heart, God wil iudge the iust and the wicked: for time is there for euery purpose and for euery worke.
Ecclesiastes 3:18	I considered in mine heart the state of the children of men that God had purged them: yet to see to, they are in themselues as beastes.
Ecclesiastes 3:19	For the condition of the children of men, and the condition of beasts are euen as one condition vnto them. As the one dyeth, so dyeth the other: for they haue all one breath, and there is no excellency of man aboue ye beast: for all is vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 3:20	All goe to one place, and all was of the dust, and all shall returne to the dust.
Ecclesiastes 3:21	Who knoweth whether the spirit of man ascend vpward, and the spirit of the beast descend downeward to the earth?
Ecclesiastes 3:22	Therefore I see that there is nothing better then that a man shoulde reioyce in his affaires, because that is his portion. For who shall bring him to see what shalbe after him?
Ecclesiastes 4:1	So I turned and considered all the oppressions that are wrought vnder the sunne, and beholde the teares of the oppressed, and none comforteth them: and lo, the strength is of the hand of them that oppresse them, and none comforteth them.
Ecclesiastes 4:2	Wherefore I praysed the dead which now are dead, aboue the liuing, which are yet aliue.
Ecclesiastes 4:3	And I count him better then them both, which hath not yet bin: for he hath not seene the euill workes which are wrought vnder the sunne.
Ecclesiastes 4:4	Also I beheld all trauaile, and all perfection of workes that this is ye enuie of a man against his neighbour: this also is vanitie and vexation of spirit.
Ecclesiastes 4:5	The foole foldeth his hands, and eateth vp his owne flesh.
Ecclesiastes 4:6	Better is an handfull with quietnesse, then two handfuls with labour and vexation of spirit.
Ecclesiastes 4:7	Againe I returned, and sawe vanitie vnder the sunne.
Ecclesiastes 4:8	There is one alone, and there is not a second, which hath neither sonne nor brother, yet is there none end of all his trauaile, neither can his eye be satisfied with riches: neither doeth he thinke, For whome doe I trauaile and defraude my soule of pleasure? this also is vanitie, and this is an euill trauaile.
Ecclesiastes 4:9	Two are better then one: for they haue better wages for their labour.
Ecclesiastes 4:10	For if they fal, the one wil lift vp his felow: but wo vnto him that is alone: for he falleth, and there is not a second to lift him vp.
Ecclesiastes 4:11	Also if two sleepe together, then shall they haue heate: but to one how should there be heate?
Ecclesiastes 4:12	And if one ouercome him, two shall stand against him: and a threefolde coard is not easily broken.
Ecclesiastes 4:13	Better is a poore and wise childe, then an olde and foolish King, which will no more be admonished.
Ecclesiastes 4:14	For out of the prison he commeth forth to reigne: when as he that is borne in his kingdome, is made poore.
Ecclesiastes 4:15	I behelde all the liuing, which walke vnder the sunne, with the second childe, which shall stand vp in his place.
Ecclesiastes 4:16	There is none ende of all the people, nor of all that were before them, and they that come after, shall not reioyce in him: surely this is also vanitie and vexation of spirit.
Ecclesiastes 4:17	Take heede to thy foote when thou entrest into the House of God, and be more neere to heare then to giue the sacrifice of fooles: for they knowe not that they doe euil.
Ecclesiastes 5:1	Be not rash with thy mouth, nor let thine heart be hastie to vtter a thing before God: for God is in the heauens, and thou art on the earth: therefore let thy wordes be fewe.
Ecclesiastes 5:2	For as a dreame commeth by the multitude of businesse: so the voyce of a foole is in the multitude of wordes.
Ecclesiastes 5:3	When thou hast vowed a vowe to God, deferre not to pay it: for he deliteth not in fooles: pay therefore that thou hast vowed.
Ecclesiastes 5:4	It is better that thou shouldest not vowe, then that thou shouldest vow and not pay it.
Ecclesiastes 5:5	Suffer not thy mouth to make thy flesh to sinne: neither say before the Angel, that this is ignorance: wherefore shall God bee angry by thy voyce, and destroy the worke of thine hands?
Ecclesiastes 5:6	For in the multitude of dreames, and vanities are also many wordes: but feare thou God.
Ecclesiastes 5:7	If in a countrey thou seest the oppression of the poore, and the defrauding of iudgement and iustice, be not astonied at the matter: for hee that is higher then the highest, regardeth, and there be higher then they.
Ecclesiastes 5:8	And the abundance of the earth is ouer all: the King also consisteth by the fielde that is tilled.
Ecclesiastes 5:9	He that loueth siluer, shall not be satisfied with siluer, and he that loueth riches, shalbe without the fruite thereof: this also is vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 5:10	When goods increase, they are increased that eate them: and what good commeth to the owners thereof, but the beholding thereof with their eyes?
Ecclesiastes 5:11	The sleepe of him that traueileth, is sweete, whether he eate litle or much: but the sacietie of the riche will not suffer him to sleepe.
Ecclesiastes 5:12	There is an euill sickenes that I haue seene vnder the sunne: to wit, riches reserued to the owners thereof for their euill.
Ecclesiastes 5:13	And these riches perish by euill trauel, and he begetteth a sonne, and in his hand is nothing.
Ecclesiastes 5:14	As hee came foorth of his mothers belly, he shall returne naked to goe as he came, and shall beare away nothing of his labour, which hee hath caused to passe by his hand.
Ecclesiastes 5:15	And this also is an euill sickenes that in all pointes as he came, so shall he goe, and what profit hath he that he hath traueiled for the winde?
Ecclesiastes 5:16	Also all his dayes hee eateth in darkenes with much griefe, and in his sorowe and anger.
Ecclesiastes 5:17	Beholde then, what I haue seene good, that it is comely to eate, and to drinke, and to take pleasure in all his labour, wherein he traueileth vnder the sunne, the whole nomber of the dayes of his life, which God giueth him: for this is his portion.
Ecclesiastes 5:18	Also to euery man to whom God hath giuen riches and treasures, and giueth him power to eate thereof, and to take his part, and to enioy his labour: this is the gift of God.
Ecclesiastes 5:19	Surely hee will not much remember the dayes of his life, because God answereth to the ioy of his heart.
Ecclesiastes 6:1	There is an euill, which I sawe vnder the sunne, and it is much among men:
Ecclesiastes 6:2	A man to whom God hath giuen riches and treasures and honour, and he wanteth nothing for his soule of all that it desireth: but God giueth him not power to eate thereof, but a strange man shall eate it vp: this is vanitie, and this is an euill sicknesse.
Ecclesiastes 6:3	If a man beget an hundreth children and liue many yeeres, and the dayes of his yeeres be multiplied, and his soule be not satisfied with good things, and he be not buried, I say that an vntimely fruite is better then he.
Ecclesiastes 6:4	For he commeth into vanitie and goeth into darkenesse: and his name shall be couered with darkenesse.
Ecclesiastes 6:5	Also he hath not seene ye sunne, nor knowen it: therefore this hath more rest then the other.
Ecclesiastes 6:6	And if he had liued a thousand yeeres twise tolde, and had seene no good, shall not all goe to one place?
Ecclesiastes 6:7	All the labour of man is for his mouth: yet the soule is not filled.
Ecclesiastes 6:8	For what hath the wise man more then the foole? what hath the poore that knoweth how to walke before the liuing?
Ecclesiastes 6:9	The sight of ye eye is better then to walke in ye lustes: this also is vanitie, and vexation of spirit.
Ecclesiastes 6:10	What is that that hath bene? the name thereof is nowe named: and it is knowen that it is man: and he cannot striue with him that is stronger then he.
Ecclesiastes 7:1	Surely there be many things that increase vanitie: and what auaileth it man?
Ecclesiastes 7:2	For who knoweth what is good for man in the life and in the nomber of the dayes of the life of his vanitie, seeing he maketh them as a shadowe? For who can shewe vnto man what shall be after him vnder the sunne?
Ecclesiastes 7:3	A good name is better then a good oyntment, and the day of death, then the day that one is borne.
Ecclesiastes 7:4	It is better to goe to the house of mourning, then to goe to the house of feasting, because this is the ende of all men: and the liuing shall lay it to his heart.
Ecclesiastes 7:5	Anger is better then laughter: for by a sad looke the heart is made better.
Ecclesiastes 7:6	The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning: but the heart of fooles is in the house of mirth.
Ecclesiastes 7:7	Better it is to heare ye rebuke of a wise man, then that a man should heare the song of fooles.
Ecclesiastes 7:8	For like ye noyse of the thornes vnder the pot, so is the laughter of the foole: this also is vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 7:9	Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad: and the rewarde destroyeth the heart.
Ecclesiastes 7:10	The ende of a thing is better then the beginning thereof, and the pacient in spirit is better then the proude in spirit.
Ecclesiastes 7:11	Be not thou of an hastie spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in the bosome of fooles.
Ecclesiastes 7:12	Say not thou, Why is it that the former dayes were better then these? for thou doest not enquire wisely of this thing.
Ecclesiastes 7:13	Wisedome is good with an inheritance, and excellent to them that see the sunne.
Ecclesiastes 7:14	For man shall rest in the shadowe of wisedome, and in the shadowe of siluer: but the excellencie of the knowledge of wisedome giueth life to the possessers thereof.
Ecclesiastes 7:15	Beholde the worke of God: for who can make straight that which he hath made crooked?
Ecclesiastes 7:16	In the day of wealth be of good comfort, and in the day of affliction consider: God also hath made this contrary to that, to the intent that man shoulde finde nothing after him.
Ecclesiastes 7:17	I haue seene all things in the dayes of my vanitie: there is a iust man that perisheth in his iustice, and there is a wicked man that continueth long in his malice.
Ecclesiastes 7:18	Be not thou iust ouermuch, neither make thy selfe ouerwise: wherefore shouldest thou be desolate?
Ecclesiastes 7:19	Be not thou wicked ouermuch, neither be thou foolish: wherefore shouldest thou perish not in thy time?
Ecclesiastes 7:20	It is good that thou lay hold on this: but yet withdrawe not thine hand from that: for he that feareth God, shall come forth of them all.
Ecclesiastes 7:21	Wisedome shall strengthen the wise man more then ten mightie princes that are in ye citie.
Ecclesiastes 7:22	Surely there is no man iust in the earth, that doeth good and sinneth not.
Ecclesiastes 7:23	Giue not thine heart also to all ye wordes that men speake, lest thou doe heare thy seruant cursing thee.
Ecclesiastes 7:24	For often times also thine heart knoweth that thou likewise hast cursed others.
Ecclesiastes 7:25	All this haue I prooued by wisedome: I thought I will be wise, but it went farre from me.
Ecclesiastes 7:26	It is farre off, what may it be? and it is a profound deepenesse, who can finde it?
Ecclesiastes 7:27	I haue compassed about, both I and mine heart to knowe and to enquire and to search wisedome, and reason, and to knowe the wickednesse of follie, and the foolishnesse of madnesse,
Ecclesiastes 7:28	And I finde more bitter then death the woman whose heart is as nettes and snares, and her handes, as bands: he that is good before God, shalbe deliuered from her, but the sinner shall be taken by her.
Ecclesiastes 7:29	Beholde, sayth the Preacher, this haue I found, seeking one by one to finde the count:
Ecclesiastes 7:30	And yet my soule seeketh, but I finde it not: I haue found one man of a thousand: but a woman among them all haue I not founde.
Ecclesiastes 7:31	Onely loe, this haue I founde, that God hath made man righteous: but they haue sought many inuentions.
Ecclesiastes 8:1	Who is as the wise man? and who knoweth the interpretation of a thing? the wisedome of a man doth make his face to shine: and the strength of his face shalbe changed.
Ecclesiastes 8:2	I aduertise thee to take heede to ye mouth of the King, and to the worde of the othe of God.
Ecclesiastes 8:3	Haste not to goe forth of his sight: stand not in an euill thing: for he will doe whatsoeuer pleaseth him.
Ecclesiastes 8:4	Where the word of ye King is, there is power, and who shall say vnto him, What doest thou?
Ecclesiastes 8:5	He that keepeth the commandement, shall knowe none euill thing, and the heart of the wise shall knowe the time and iudgement.
Ecclesiastes 8:6	For to euery purpose there is a time and iudgement, because the miserie of man is great vpon him.
Ecclesiastes 8:7	For he knoweth not that which shalbe: for who can tell him when it shalbe?
Ecclesiastes 8:8	Man is not lorde ouer the spirit to retaine the spirite: neither hath hee power in the day of death, nor deliuerance in the battell, neither shall wickednesse deliuer the possessers thereof.
Ecclesiastes 8:9	All this haue I seene, and haue giuen mine heart to euery worke, which is wrought vnder the sunne, and I sawe a time that man ruleth ouer man to his owne hurt.
Ecclesiastes 8:10	And likewise I sawe the wicked buried, and they returned, and they that came from the holy place, were yet forgotten in the citie where they had done right: this also is vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 8:11	Because sentence against an euill worke is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the children of men is fully set in them to doe euill.
Ecclesiastes 8:12	Though a sinner doe euill an hundreth times, and God prolongeth his dayes, yet I knowe that it shalbe well with them that feare the Lord, and doe reuerence before him.
Ecclesiastes 8:13	But it shall not be well to the wicked, neither shall he prolong his dayes: he shall be like a shadowe, because he feareth not before God.
Ecclesiastes 8:14	There is a vanitie, which is done vpon the earth, that there be righteous men to whom it commeth according to the worke of the wicked: and there be wicked men to whom it commeth according to the worke of the iust: I thought also that this is vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 8:15	And I praysed ioy: for there is no goodnesse to man vnder the sunne, saue to eate and to drinke and to reioyce: for this is adioyned to his labour, the dayes of his life that God hath giuen him vnder the sunne.
Ecclesiastes 8:16	When I applied mine heart to knowe wisedome, and to behold the busines that is done on earth, that neither day nor night the eyes of man take sleepe,
Ecclesiastes 8:17	Then I behelde the whole worke of God, that man cannot finde out ye worke that is wrought vnder the sunne: for the which man laboureth to seeke it, and cannot finde it: yea, and though the wise man thinke to knowe it, he cannot finde it.
Ecclesiastes 9:1	I have surely giuen mine heart to all this, and to declare all this, that the iust, and the wise, and their workes are in the hand of God: and no man knoweth eyther loue or hatred of all that is before them.
Ecclesiastes 9:2	All things come alike to all: and the same condition is to the iust and to the wicked, to the good and to the pure, and to the polluted, and to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacrificeth not: as is the good, so is the sinner, he that sweareth, as he that feareth an othe.
Ecclesiastes 9:3	This is euill among all that is done vnder the sunne, that there is one condition to all, and also the heart of the sonnes of men is full of euill, and madnes is in their heartes whiles they liue, and after that, they goe to the dead.
Ecclesiastes 9:4	Surely whosoeuer is ioyned to all ye liuing, there is hope: for it is better to a liuing dog, then to a dead lyon.
Ecclesiastes 9:5	For the liuing knowe that they shall dye, but the dead knowe nothing at all: neither haue they any more a rewarde: for their remembrance is forgotten.
Ecclesiastes 9:6	Also their loue, and their hatred, and their enuie is now perished, and they haue no more portion for euer, in all that is done vnder the sunne.
Ecclesiastes 9:7	Goe, eate thy bread with ioy, and drinke thy wine with a cheerefull heart: for God nowe accepteth thy workes.
Ecclesiastes 9:8	At all times let thy garments be white, and let not oyle be lacking vpon thine head.
Ecclesiastes 9:9	Reioyce with the wife whom thou hast loued all the dayes of the life of thy vanitie, which God hath giuen thee vnder the sunne all the dayes of thy vanitie: for this is thy portion in the life, and in thy trauaile wherein thou labourest vnder the sunne.
Ecclesiastes 9:10	All that thine hand shall finde to doe, doe it with all thy power: for there is neither worke nor inuention, nor knowledge, nor wisedome in the graue whither thou goest.
Ecclesiastes 9:11	I returned, and I sawe vnder the sunne that the race is not to the swift, nor the battell to the strong, nor yet bread to the wise, nor also riches to men of vnderstanding, neither yet fauour to men of knowledge: but time and chance commeth to them all.
Ecclesiastes 9:12	For neither doth man knowe his time, but as the fishes which are taken in an euill net, and as the birdes that are caught in the snare: so are the children of men snared in the euill time when it falleth vpon them suddenly.
Ecclesiastes 9:13	I haue also seene this wisedome vnder the sunne, and it is great vnto me.
Ecclesiastes 9:14	A litle citie and fewe men in it, and a great King came against it, and compassed it about, and builded fortes against it.
Ecclesiastes 9:15	And there was founde therein a poore and wise man, and he deliuered the citie by his wisedome: but none remembred this poore man.
Ecclesiastes 9:16	Then said I, Better is wisdome then strength: yet the wisedome of the poore is despised, and his wordes are not heard.
Ecclesiastes 9:17	The wordes of the wise are more heard in quietnes, then the crye of him that ruleth among fooles.
Ecclesiastes 9:18	Better is wisedome then weapons of warre: but one sinner destroyeth much good.
Ecclesiastes 10:1	Dead flies cause to stinke, and putrifie the ointment of the apoticarie: so doeth a litle follie him that is in estimation for wisedome, and for glorie.
Ecclesiastes 10:2	The heart of a wise man is at his right hand: but the heart of a foole is at his left hand.
Ecclesiastes 10:3	And also when the foole goeth by the way, his heart faileth, and he telleth vnto all that he is a foole.
Ecclesiastes 10:4	If the spirite of him that ruleth, rise vp against thee, leaue not thy place: for gentlenes pacifieth great sinnes.
Ecclesiastes 10:5	There is an euil that I haue seene vnder the sunne, as an errour that proceedeth from the face of him that ruleth.
Ecclesiastes 10:6	Follie is set in great excellencie, and the riche set in the lowe place.
Ecclesiastes 10:7	I haue seene seruants on horses, and princes walking as seruants on the ground.
Ecclesiastes 10:8	He that diggeth a pit, shall fal into it, and he that breaketh the hedge, a serpent shall bite him.
Ecclesiastes 10:9	He that remooueth stones, shall hurt himselfe thereby, and hee that cutteth wood, shall be in danger thereby.
Ecclesiastes 10:10	If the yron be blunt, and one hath not whet the edge, he must then put to more strength: but the excellencie to direct a thing is wisedome.
Ecclesiastes 10:11	If the serpent bite, when he is not charmed: no better is a babbler.
Ecclesiastes 10:12	The words of ye mouth of a wise man haue grace: but the lippes of a foole deuoure himselfe.
Ecclesiastes 10:13	The beginning of the wordes of his mouth is foolishnesse, and the latter ende of his mouth is wicked madnesse.
Ecclesiastes 10:14	For the foole multiplieth woordes, saying, Man knoweth not what shall be: and who can tell him what shall be after him?
Ecclesiastes 10:15	The labour of the foolish doeth wearie him: for he knoweth not to goe into the citie.
Ecclesiastes 10:16	Woe to thee, O lande, when thy King is a childe, and thy princes eate in the morning.
Ecclesiastes 10:17	Blessed art thou, O land, when thy King is the sonne of nobles, and thy princes eate in time, for strength and not for drunkennesse.
Ecclesiastes 10:18	By slouthfulnes the roofe of the house goeth to decaie, and by the ydlenesse of the handes the house droppeth through.
Ecclesiastes 10:19	They prepare bread for laughter, and wine comforteth the liuing, but siluer answereth to all.
Ecclesiastes 10:20	Curse not the King, no not in thy thought, neither curse the rich in thy bed chamber: for the foule of the heauen shall carie the voice, and that which hath wings, shall declare the matter.
Ecclesiastes 11:1	Cast thy bread vpon the waters: for after many daies thou shalt finde it.
Ecclesiastes 11:2	Giue a portion to seuen, and also to eight: for thou knowest not what euill shalbe vpon ye earth.
Ecclesiastes 11:3	If the clouds be full, they wil powre forth raine vpon the earth: and if the tree doe fall toward the South, or toward the North, in the place that the tree falleth, there it shalbe.
Ecclesiastes 11:4	He that obserueth ye winde, shall not sow, and he that regardeth the cloudes, shall not reape.
Ecclesiastes 11:5	As thou knowest not which is ye way of the spirit, nor how the bones doe growe in the wombe of her that is with child: so thou knowest not the worke of God that worketh all.
Ecclesiastes 11:6	In the morning sowe thy seede, and in the euening let not thine hand rest: for thou knowest not whither shall prosper, this or that, or whether both shalbe a like good.
Ecclesiastes 11:7	Surely the light is a pleasant thing: and it is a good thing to the eyes to see the sunne.
Ecclesiastes 11:8	Though a man liue many yeeres, and in them all he reioyce, yet hee shall remember the daies of darkenesse, because they are manie, all that commeth is vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 11:9	Reioyce, O yong man, in thy youth, and let thine heart cheere thee in the dayes of thy youth: and walke in the waies of thine heart, and in the sight of thine eyes: but knowe that for all these things, God wil bring thee to iudgement.
Ecclesiastes 11:10	Therefore take away griefe out of thine heart, and cause euil to depart from thy flesh: for childehood and youth are vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 12:1	Remember nowe thy Creator in the daies of thy youth, whiles the euill daies come not, nor the yeeres approche, wherein thou shalt say, I haue no pleasure in them:
Ecclesiastes 12:2	Whiles the sunne is not darke, nor ye light, nor the moone, nor the starres, nor the cloudes returne after the raine:
Ecclesiastes 12:3	When the keepers of ye house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow them selues, and the grinders shall cease, because they are few, and they waxe darke that looke out by ye windowes:
Ecclesiastes 12:4	And the doores shall be shut without by the base sound of the grinding, and he shall rise vp at the voice of the birde: and all the daughters of singing shall be abased.
Ecclesiastes 12:5	Also they shalbe afraide of the hie thing, and feare shalbe in the way, and the almond tree shall flourish, and the grassehopper shall be a burden, and concupiscence shall be driuen away: for man goeth to the house of his age, and the mourners goe about in the streete.
Ecclesiastes 12:6	Whiles the siluer coarde is not lengthened, nor the golden ewer broken, nor the pitcher broken at the well, nor the wheele broken at the cisterne:
Ecclesiastes 12:7	And dust returne to the earth as it was, and the spirit returne to God that gaue it.
Ecclesiastes 12:8	Vanitie of vanities, saieth the Preacher, all is vanitie.
Ecclesiastes 12:9	And the more wise the Preacher was, the more he taught the people knowledge, and caused them to heare, and searched foorth, and prepared many parables.
Ecclesiastes 12:10	The Preacher sought to finde out pleasant wordes, and an vpright writing, euen the wordes of trueth.
Ecclesiastes 12:11	The wordes of the wise are like goads, and like nailes fastened by the masters of the assemblies, which are giuen by one pastour.
Ecclesiastes 12:12	And of other things beside these, my sone, take thou heede: for there is none ende in making many bookes, and much reading is a wearines of the flesh.
Ecclesiastes 12:13	Let vs heare the end of all: feare God and keepe his commandements: for this is the whole duetie of man.
Ecclesiastes 12:14	For God will bring euery worke vnto iudgement, with euery secret thing, whether it be good or euill.

===== BOOK: Ephesians =====
Ephesians 1:1	Pavl an Apostle of Jesvs Christ by the will of God, to the Saints, which are at Ephesus, and to ye faithfull in Christ Iesus:
Ephesians 1:2	Grace be with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
Ephesians 1:3	Blessed be God, and the Father of our Lord Iesus Christ, which hath blessed vs with all spirituall blessing in heauenly thinges in Christ,
Ephesians 1:4	As hee hath chosen vs in him, before the foundation of the worlde, that we should be holy, and without blame before him in loue:
Ephesians 1:5	Who hath predestinate vs, to be adopted through Iesus Christ in him selfe, according to the good pleasure of his will,
Ephesians 1:6	To the prayse of the glory of his grace, wherewith he hath made vs freely accepted in his beloued,
Ephesians 1:7	By whom we haue redemption through his blood, euen the forgiuenes of sinnes, according to his rich grace:
Ephesians 1:8	Whereby he hath bene aboundant toward vs in all wisedome and vnderstanding,
Ephesians 1:9	And hath opened vnto vs the mysterie of his will according to his good pleasure, which he had purposed in him,
Ephesians 1:10	That in the dispensation of the fulnesse of the times, he might gather together in one all things, both which are in heauen, and which are in earth, euen in Christ:
Ephesians 1:11	In whom also we are chosen when we were predestinate according to ye purpose of him, which worketh all things after the counsell of his owne will,
Ephesians 1:12	That we, which first trusted in Christ, should be vnto the praise of his glorie:
Ephesians 1:13	In whom also ye haue trusted, after that ye heard the worde of trueth, euen the Gospel of your saluation, wherein also after that ye beleeued, ye were sealed with the holy Spirite of promise,
Ephesians 1:14	Which is the earnest of our inheritance, for the redemption of that libertie purchased vnto the prayse of his glory.
Ephesians 1:15	Therefore also after that I heard of the faith, which ye haue in the Lord Iesus, and loue toward all the Saints,
Ephesians 1:16	I cease not to giue thankes for you, making mention of you in my prayers,
Ephesians 1:17	That the God of our Lord Iesus Christ, that Father of glory, might giue vnto you the Spirit of wisedome, and reuelation through the acknowledging of him,
Ephesians 1:18	That the eyes of your vnderstanding may be lightened, that ye may knowe what the hope is of his calling, and what the riches of his glorious inheritance is in the Saints,
Ephesians 1:19	And what is the exceeding greatnesse of his power toward vs, which beleeue, according to the working of his mightie power,
Ephesians 1:20	Which he wrought in Christ, when he raised him from the dead, and set him at his right hand in the heauenly places,
Ephesians 1:21	Farre aboue al principalitie, and power, and might, and domination, and euery Name, that is named, not in this world only, but also in that that is to come,
Ephesians 1:22	And hath made all things subiect vnder his feete, and hath giuen him ouer all things to be the head to the Church,
Ephesians 1:23	Which is his body, euen the fulnesse of him that filleth all in all things.
Ephesians 2:1	And you hath he quickened, that were dead in trespasses and sinnes,
Ephesians 2:2	Wherein, in times past ye walked, according to the course of this world, and after the prince that ruleth in the aire, euen the spirite, that nowe worketh in the children of disobedience,
Ephesians 2:3	Among whom we also had our conuersation in time past, in the lustes of our flesh, in fulfilling the will of the flesh, and of the minde, and were by nature the children of wrath, as well as others.
Ephesians 2:4	But God which is rich in mercie, through his great loue wherewith he loued vs,
Ephesians 2:5	Euen when we were dead by sinnes, hath quickened vs together in Christ, by whose grace ye are saued,
Ephesians 2:6	And hath raysed vs vp together, and made vs sit together in the heauenly places in Christ Iesus,
Ephesians 2:7	That he might shewe in the ages to come the exceeding riches of his grace, through his kindnesse toward vs in Christ Iesus.
Ephesians 2:8	For by grace are ye saued through faith, and that not of your selues: it is the gift of God,
Ephesians 2:9	Not of workes, least any man should boast himselfe.
Ephesians 2:10	For we are his workemanship created in Christ Iesus vnto good workes, which God hath ordeined, that we should walke in them.
Ephesians 2:11	Wherefore remember that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, and called vncircumcision of them, which are called circumcision in the flesh, made with hands,
Ephesians 2:12	That ye were, I say, at that time without Christ, and were alients from the common wealth of Israel, and were strangers from the couenants of promise, and had no hope, and were without God in the world.
Ephesians 2:13	But nowe in Christ Iesus, ye which once were farre off, are made neere by the blood of Christ.
Ephesians 2:14	For he is our peace, which hath made of both one, and hath broken the stoppe of the partition wall,
Ephesians 2:15	In abrogating through his flesh the hatred, that is, the Lawe of commandements which standeth in ordinances, for to make of twaine one newe man in himselfe, so making peace,
Ephesians 2:16	And that he might reconcile both vnto God in one body by his crosse, and slay hatred thereby,
Ephesians 2:17	And came, and preached peace to you which were afarre off, and to them that were neere.
Ephesians 2:18	For through him we both haue an entrance vnto the Father by one Spirit.
Ephesians 2:19	Nowe therefore ye are no more strangers and forreiners: but citizens with the Saintes, and of the houshold of God,
Ephesians 2:20	And are built vpon the foundation of the Apostles and Prophets, Iesus Christ himselfe being the chiefe corner stone,
Ephesians 2:21	In whom all the building coupled together, groweth vnto an holy Temple in the Lord.
Ephesians 2:22	In whom ye also are built together to be the habitation of God by the Spirit.
Ephesians 3:1	For this cause, I Paul am the prisoner of Iesus Christ for you Gentiles,
Ephesians 3:2	If ye haue heard of the dispensation of the grace of God, which is giuen me to you warde,
Ephesians 3:3	That is, that God by reuelation hath shewed this mysterie vnto me (as I wrote aboue in fewe wordes,
Ephesians 3:4	Whereby when ye reade, ye may knowe mine vnderstanding in the mysterie of Christ)
Ephesians 3:5	Which in other ages was not opened vnto the sonnes of men, as it is nowe reueiled vnto his holy Apostles and Prophets by the Spirit,
Ephesians 3:6	That the Gentiles should be inheriters also, and of the same body, and partakers of his promise in Christ by the Gospel,
Ephesians 3:7	Whereof I am made a minister by the gift of the grace of God giuen vnto me through the effectuall working of his power.
Ephesians 3:8	Euen vnto me the least of all Saints is this grace giuen, that I should preach among the Gentiles the vnsearchable riches of Christ,
Ephesians 3:9	And to make cleare vnto all men what the fellowship of the mysterie is, which from the beginning of the world hath bene hid in God, who hath created all things by Iesus Christ,
Ephesians 3:10	To the intent, that nowe vnto principalities and powers in heauenly places, might be knowen by the Church the manifolde wisedome of God,
Ephesians 3:11	According to the eternall purpose, which he wrought in Christ Iesus our Lord:
Ephesians 3:12	By whom we haue boldenes and entrance with confidence, by faith in him.
Ephesians 3:13	Wherefore I desire that ye faint not at my tribulations for your sakes, which is your glory.
Ephesians 3:14	For this cause I bowe my knees vnto the Father of our Lord Iesus Christ,
Ephesians 3:15	(Of whom is named the whole familie in heauen and in earth)
Ephesians 3:16	That he might graunt you according to the riches of his glorie, that ye may be strengthened by his Spirit in the inner man,
Ephesians 3:17	That Christ may dwell in your heartes by faith:
Ephesians 3:18	That ye, being rooted and grounded in loue, may be able to comprehend with al Saints, what is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height:
Ephesians 3:19	And to knowe the loue of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye may be filled with all fulnesse of God.
Ephesians 3:20	Vnto him therefore that is able to do exceeding aboundantly aboue all that we aske or thinke, according to the power that worketh in vs,
Ephesians 3:21	Be praise in the Church by Christ Iesus, throughout all generations for euer, Amen.
Ephesians 4:1	I therefore, being prisoner in the Lord, praie you that yee walke worthie of the vocation whereunto yee are called,
Ephesians 4:2	With all humblenesse of minde, and meekenesse, with long suffering, supporting one an other through loue,
Ephesians 4:3	Endeuouring to keepe the vnitie of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
Ephesians 4:4	There is one body, and one Spirit, euen as yee are called in one hope of your vocation.
Ephesians 4:5	There is one Lord, one Faith, one Baptisme,
Ephesians 4:6	One God and Father of all, which is aboue all, and through all, and in you all.
Ephesians 4:7	But vnto euery one of vs is giuen grace, according to the measure of the gift of Christ.
Ephesians 4:8	Wherfore he saith, Whe he asceded vp on hie, he led captiuity captiue, and gaue gifts vnto men.
Ephesians 4:9	(Nowe, in that hee ascended, what is it but that he had also descended first into the lowest partes of the earth?
Ephesians 4:10	Hee that descended, is euen the same that ascended, farre aboue all heauens, that hee might fill all things)
Ephesians 4:11	Hee therefore gaue some to be Apostles, and some Prophets, and some Euangelists, and some Pastours, and Teachers,
Ephesians 4:12	For the repairing of the Saintes, for the woorke of the ministerie, and for the edification of the bodie of Christ,
Ephesians 4:13	Till we all meete together (in the vnitie of faith and that acknowledging of the Sonne of God) vnto a perfite man, and vnto the measure of the age of the fulnesse of Christ,
Ephesians 4:14	That we henceforth be no more children, wauering and caried about with euery winde of doctrine, by the deceit of men, and with craftines, whereby they lay in wait to deceiue.
Ephesians 4:15	But let vs folowe the truth in loue, and in all things, grow vp into him, which is the head, that is, Christ.
Ephesians 4:16	By whome al the body being coupled and knit together by euery ioynt, for ye furniture therof (according to the effectual power, which is in the measure of euery part) receiueth increase of the body, vnto the edifying of itselfe in loue.
Ephesians 4:17	This I say therefore and testifie in the Lord, that yee hencefoorth walke not as other Gentiles walke, in vanitie of their minde,
Ephesians 4:18	Hauing their vnderstanding darkened, and being strangers from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them, because of the hardnesse of their heart:
Ephesians 4:19	Which being past feeling, haue giuen themselues vnto wantonnesse, to woorke all vncleannesse, euen with griedinesse.
Ephesians 4:20	But yee haue not so learned Christ,
Ephesians 4:21	If so be yee haue heard him, and haue bene taught by him, as the trueth is in Iesus,
Ephesians 4:22	That is, that yee cast off, concerning the conuersation in time past, that olde man, which is corrupt through the deceiueable lustes,
Ephesians 4:23	And be renued in the spirit of your minde,
Ephesians 4:24	And put on ye new man, which after God is created vnto righteousnes, and true holines.
Ephesians 4:25	Wherefore cast off lying, and speake euery man truth vnto his neighbour: for we are members one of another.
Ephesians 4:26	Bee angrie, but sinne not: let not the sunne goe downe vpon your wrath,
Ephesians 4:27	Neither giue place to the deuill.
Ephesians 4:28	Let him that stole, steale no more: but let him rather labour, and worke with his handes the thing which is good, that hee may haue to giue vnto him that needeth.
Ephesians 4:29	Let no corrupt comunication proceed out of your mouths: but that which is good, to ye vse of edifying, that it may minister grace vnto the hearers.
Ephesians 4:30	And grieue not the holy Spirit of God, by whom ye are sealed vnto ye day of redemption.
Ephesians 4:31	Let all bitternesse, and anger, and wrath, crying, and euill speaking be put away from you, with all maliciousnesse.
Ephesians 4:32	Be ye courteous one to another, and tender hearted, freely forgiuing one another, euen as God for Christes sake, freely forgaue you.
Ephesians 5:1	Bee yee therefore followers of God, as deare children,
Ephesians 5:2	And walke in loue, euen as Christ hath loued vs, and hath giuen himselfe for vs, to be an offering and a sacrifice of a sweete smellling sauour to God.
Ephesians 5:3	But fornication, and all vncleannesse, or couetousnesse, let it not be once named among you, as it becommeth Saintes,
Ephesians 5:4	Neither filthinesse, neither foolish talking, neither iesting, which are things not comely, but rather giuing of thankes.
Ephesians 5:5	For this ye know, that no whoremonger, neither vncleane person, nor couetous person, which is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdome of Christ, and of God.
Ephesians 5:6	Let no man deceiue you with vaine wordes: for, for such thinges commeth the wrath of God vpon the children of disobedience.
Ephesians 5:7	Be not therefore companions with them.
Ephesians 5:8	For ye were once darkenesse, but are nowe light in the Lord: walke as children of light,
Ephesians 5:9	(For the fruit of the Spirit is in al goodnes, and righteousnes, and trueth)
Ephesians 5:10	Approuing that which is pleasing to the Lord.
Ephesians 5:11	And haue no fellowship with ye vnfruitfull works of darknes, but euen reproue them rather.
Ephesians 5:12	For it is shame euen to speake of the things which are done of them in secret.
Ephesians 5:13	But all thinges when they are reproued of the light, are manifest: for it is light that maketh all things manifest.
Ephesians 5:14	Wherefore hee sayeth, Awake thou that sleepest, and stande vp from the deade, and Christ shall giue thee light.
Ephesians 5:15	Take heede therefore that yee walke circumspectly, not as fooles, but as wise,
Ephesians 5:16	Redeeming ye season: for ye daies are euill.
Ephesians 5:17	Wherefore, be ye not vnwise, but vnderstand what the will of the Lord is.
Ephesians 5:18	And be not drunke with wine, wherein is excesse: but be fulfilled with the Spirit,
Ephesians 5:19	Speaking vnto your selues in psalmes, and hymnes, and spirituall songs, singing, and making melodie to the Lord in your hearts,
Ephesians 5:20	Giuing thankes alwaies for all thinges vnto God euen the Father, in the Name of our Lord Iesus Christ,
Ephesians 5:21	Submitting your selues one to another in the feare of God.
Ephesians 5:22	Wiues, submit your selues vnto your husbands, as vnto the Lord.
Ephesians 5:23	For the husband is the wiues head, euen as Christ is the head of the Church, and the same is the sauiour of his body.
Ephesians 5:24	Therfore as the Church is in subiection to Christ, euen so let the wiues be to their husbands in euery thing.
Ephesians 5:25	Husbands, loue your wiues, euen as Christ loued the Church, and gaue himselfe for it,
Ephesians 5:26	That hee might sanctifie it, and clense it by the washing of water through the worde,
Ephesians 5:27	That hee might make it vnto him selfe a glorious Church, not hauing spot or wrinkle, or any such thing: but that it shoulde bee holy and without blame.
Ephesians 5:28	So ought men to loue their wiues, as their owne bodies: he that loueth his wife, loueth him selfe.
Ephesians 5:29	For no man euer yet hated his owne flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, euen as the Lord doeth the Church.
Ephesians 5:30	For we are members of his bodie, of his flesh, and of his bones.
Ephesians 5:31	For this cause shall a man leaue father and mother, and shall cleaue to his wife, and they twaine shalbe one flesh.
Ephesians 5:32	This is a great secrete, but I speake concerning Christ, and concerning the Church.
Ephesians 5:33	Therefore euery one of you, doe ye so: let euery one loue his wife, euen as himselfe, and let the wife see that shee feare her husband.
Ephesians 6:1	Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right.
Ephesians 6:2	Honour thy father and mother (which is the first commandement with promise)
Ephesians 6:3	That it may be well with thee, and that thou mayst liue long on earth.
Ephesians 6:4	And ye, fathers, prouoke not your children to wrath: but bring them vp in instruction and information of the Lord.
Ephesians 6:5	Seruants, be obedient vnto them that are your masters, according to the flesh, with feare and trembling in singlenesse of your hearts as vnto Christ,
Ephesians 6:6	Not with seruice to the eye, as men pleasers, but as the seruants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,
Ephesians 6:7	With good will, seruing the Lord, and not men.
Ephesians 6:8	And knowe ye that whatsoeuer good thing any man doeth, that same shall he receiue of the Lord, whether he be bond or free.
Ephesians 6:9	And ye masters, doe the same things vnto them, putting away threatning: and know that euen your master also is in heauen, neither is there respect of person with him.
Ephesians 6:10	Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.
Ephesians 6:11	Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the assaultes of the deuil.
Ephesians 6:12	For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, and against the worldly gouernours, the princes of the darkenesse of this worlde, against spirituall wickednesses, which are in ye hie places.
Ephesians 6:13	For this cause take vnto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to resist in the euill day, and hauing finished all things, stand fast.
Ephesians 6:14	Stand therefore, and your loynes girded about with veritie, and hauing on the brest plate of righteousnesse,
Ephesians 6:15	And your feete shod with the preparation of the Gospel of peace.
Ephesians 6:16	Aboue all, take the shielde of faith, wherewith ye may quench all the fierie dartes of the wicked,
Ephesians 6:17	And take the helmet of saluation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the worde of God.
Ephesians 6:18	And pray alwayes with all maner prayer and supplication in the Spirit: and watch thereunto with all perseuerance and supplication for al Saints,
Ephesians 6:19	And for me, that vtterance may be giuen vnto me, that I may open my mouth boldly to publish the secret of the Gospel,
Ephesians 6:20	Whereof I am the ambassadour in bonds, that therein I may speake boldely, as I ought to speake.
Ephesians 6:21	But that ye may also know mine affaires, and what I doe, Tychicus my deare brother and faithfull minister in the Lord, shall shewe you of all things,
Ephesians 6:22	Whom I haue sent vnto you for the same purpose, that ye might knowe mine affaires, and that he might comfort your hearts.
Ephesians 6:23	Peace be with the brethren, and loue with faith from God the Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
Ephesians 6:24	Grace be with all them which loue our Lord Iesus Christ, to their immortalitie, Amen. ‘Written from Rome vnto the Ephesians, and sent by Tychicus.’

===== BOOK: Esther =====
Esther 1:1	In the dayes of Ahashuerosh (this is Ahashuerosh that reigned, from India euen vnto Ethiopia, ouer an hundreth, and seuen and twentie prouinces)
Esther 1:2	In those dayes when the King Ahashuerosh sate on his throne, which was in the palace of Shushan,
Esther 1:3	In the third yeere of his reigne, he made a feast vnto all his princes and his seruants, euen the power of Persia and Media, and to the captaines and gouernours of the prouinces which were before him,
Esther 1:4	That he might shewe the riches and glorie of his kingdome, and the honour of his great maiestie many dayes, euen an hundreth and foure score dayes.
Esther 1:5	And when these dayes were expired, the King made a feast to all the people that were founde in the palace of Shushan, both vnto great and small, seuen dayes, in the court of the garden of the Kings palace,
Esther 1:6	Vnder an hanging of white, greene, and blue clothes, fastened with cordes of fine linen and purple, in siluer rings, and pillars of marble: the beds were of golde, and of siluer vpon a pauement of porphyre, and marble and alabaster, and blue colour.
Esther 1:7	And they gaue them drinke in vessels of golde, and changed vessel after vessel, and royall wine in abundance according to the power of the King.
Esther 1:8	And the drinking was by an order, none might compel: for so the King had appoynted vnto all the officers of his house, that they should do according to euery mans pleasure.
Esther 1:9	The Queene Vashti made a feast also for the women in the royall house of King Ahashuerosh.
Esther 1:10	Vpon the seuenth daye when the King was merie with wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, and Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcas, the seuen eunuches, (that serued in the presence of King Ahashuerosh)
Esther 1:11	To bring Queene Vashti before the King with the crowne royall, that he might shewe the people and the princes her beautie: for shee was fayre to looke vpon.
Esther 1:12	But the Queene Vashti refused to come at the Kings worde, which he had giuen in charge to the eunuches: therefore the King was very angry, and his wrath kindled in him.
Esther 1:13	Then the King said to the wise men, that knew the times (for so was the Kings maner towards all that knew the law and the iudgement:
Esther 1:14	And the next vnto him was Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan the seuen princes of Persia and Media, which sawe the Kings face, and sate the first in the kingdome)
Esther 1:15	What shall we do vnto the Queene Vashti according to the law, because she did not according to the worde of the King Ahashuerosh by the commission of the eunuches?
Esther 1:16	Then Memucan answered before the King and the Princes, The Queene Vashti hath not only done euill against the King, but against all the princes, and against all the people that are in all the prouinces of King Ahashuerosh.
Esther 1:17	For the acte of the Queene shall come abroade vnto all women, so that they shall despise their husbands in their owne eyes, and shall say, The King Ahashuerosh comanded Vashti the Queene to be brought in before him, but she came not.
Esther 1:18	So shall the princesses of Persia and Media this day say vnto all the Kings Princes, when they heare of the acte of the Queene: thus shall there be much despitefulnesse and wrath.
Esther 1:19	If it please the King, let a royal decree proceede from him, and let it be written among the statutes of Persia, and Media, (and let it not be transgressed) that Vashti come no more before King Ahashuerosh: and let the King giue her royal estate vnto her companion that is better then she.
Esther 1:20	And when the decree of the King which shalbe made, shalbe published throughout all his kingdome (though it be great) all the women shall giue their husbands honour, both great and small.
Esther 1:21	And this saying pleased the King and the princes, and the King did according to the worde of Memucan.
Esther 1:22	For he sent letters into all the prouinces of the King, into euery prouince according to the writing thereof, and to euery people after their language, that euery man should beare rule in his owne house, and that he should publish it in the language of that same people.
Esther 2:1	After these things, when the wrath of King Ahashuerosh was appeased, he remembred Vashti, and what she had done, and what was decreed against her.
Esther 2:2	And the Kings seruants that ministred vnto him, sayd, Let them seeke for the King beautifull yong virgins,
Esther 2:3	And let the King appoynt officers through all the prouinces of his kingdome, and let them gather all the beautiful yong virgins vnto the palace of Shushan, into the house of the women, vnder the hand of Hege the Kings eunuche, keeper of the women, to giue them their things for purification.
Esther 2:4	And the mayde that shall please the King, let her reigne in the steade of Vashti. And this pleased the King, and he did so.
Esther 2:5	In the citie of Shushan, there was a certaine Iewe, whose name was Mordecai the sonne of Iair, the sonne of Shimei, the sonne of Kish a man of Iemini,
Esther 2:6	Which had bene caryed away from Ierusalem with the captiuitie that was caryed away with Ieconiah King of Iudah (whom Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel had caryed away)
Esther 2:7	And he nourished Hadassah, that is Ester, his vncles daughter: for she had neither father nor mother, and the mayde was fayre, and beautifull to looke on: and after the death of her father, and her mother, Mordecai tooke her for his own daughter
Esther 2:8	And when the Kings commandement, and his decree was published, and many maydes were brought together to the palace of Shushan, vnder the hand of Hege, Ester was brought also vnto the Kings house vnder the hande of Hege the keeper of the women.
Esther 2:9	And the mayde pleased him, and she founde fauour in his sight: therefore he caused her things for purification to be giuen her speedily, and her state, and seuen comely maides to be giuer her out of the Kings house, and he gaue change to her and to her maydes of the best in the house of the women.
Esther 2:10	But Ester shewed not her people and her kinred: for Mordecai had charged her, that shee should not tell it.
Esther 2:11	Aud Mordecai walked euery day before the court of the womens house, to knowe if Ester did well, and what should be done with her.
Esther 2:12	And when the course of euery mayd came, to go in to King Ahashuerosh, after that she had bene twelue moneths according to the maner of the women (for so were the dayes of their purifications accomplished, sixe moneths with oyle of myrrhe, and sixe moneths with sweete odours and in the purifying of the women:
Esther 2:13	And thus went the maides vnto the King) whatsoeuer she required, was giuen her, to go with her out of the womens house vnto ye kings house.
Esther 2:14	In the euening she went, and on the morow she returned into the second house of the women vnder the hand of Shaashgaz the Kings eunuche, which kept the concubines: shee came in to the King no more, except shee pleased the King, and that she were called by name.
Esther 2:15	Now when the course of Ester the daughter of Abihail the vncle of Mordecai (which had taken her as his owne daughter) came, that shee should go in to the King, she desired nothing, but what Hege the Kings eunuche the keeper of the women sayde: and Ester founde fauour in the sight of all them that looked vpon her.
Esther 2:16	So Ester was taken vnto King Ahashuerosh into his house royall in the tenth moneth, which is the moneth Tebeth, in the seuenth yeere of his reigne.
Esther 2:17	And the King loued Ester aboue all the women, and shee founde grace and fauour in his sight more then all the virgins: so that he set the crowne of the kingdome vpon her head, and made her Queene instead of Vashti.
Esther 2:18	Then the King made a great feast vnto all his princes, and his seruants, which was the feast of Ester, and gaue rest vnto the prouinces, and gaue gifts, according to the power of a King.
Esther 2:19	And whe the virgins were gathered ye second time, then Mordecai sate in the Kings gate.
Esther 2:20	Ester had not yet shewed her kindred nor her people, as Mordecai had charged her: for Ester did after the worde of Mordecai, as when she was nourished with him.
Esther 2:21	In those dayes whe Mordecai sate in the Kings gate, two of the Kings eunuches, Bigthan and Teresh, which kept the doore, were wroth, and sought to lay hand on the King Ahashuerosh.
Esther 2:22	And the thing was knowen to Mordecai, and he tolde it vnto Queene Ester, and Ester certified the King thereof in Mordecais name: and when inquisition was made, it was found so: therefore they were both hanged on a tree: and it was written in the booke of the Chronicles before the King.
Esther 3:1	After these things did King Ahashuerosh promote Haman the sonne of Hammedatha the Agagite, and exalted him, and set his seate aboue all the princes that were with him.
Esther 3:2	And all the Kings seruants that were at the Kings gate, bowed their knees, and reuerenced Haman: for the King had so commanded concerning him: but Mordecai bowed not the knee, neither did reuerence.
Esther 3:3	Then the Kings seruants which were at the Kings gate, said vnto Mordecai, Why transgressest thou the Kings commandement?
Esther 3:4	And albeit they spake dayly vnto him, yet he would not heare them: therefore they tolde Haman, that they might see how Mordecais matters would stande: for he had tolde them, that he was a Iewe.
Esther 3:5	And when Haman sawe that Mordecai bowed not the knee vnto him, nor did reuerence vnto him, then Haman was full of wrath.
Esther 3:6	Now he thought it too litle to lay hands onely on Mordecai: and because they had shewed him the people of Mordecai, Haman sought to destroy all the Iewes, that were throughout the whole kingdome of Ahashuerosh, euen the people of Mordecai.
Esther 3:7	In the first moneth (that is the moneth Nisan) in the twelft yere of King Ahashuerosh, they cast Pur (that is a lot) before Haman, from day to day, and from moneth to moneth, vnto the twelft moneth, that is the moneth Adar.
Esther 3:8	Then Haman said vnto King Ahashuerosh, There is a people scattered, and dispersed among the people in all the prouinces of thy kingdome, and their lawes are diuers from all people, and they doe not obserue the Kings lawes: therefore it is not the Kings profite to suffer them.
Esther 3:9	If it please the King, let it be written that they may he destroyed, and I will pay ten thousand talents of siluer by the handes of them that haue the charge of this businesse to bring it into the Kings treasurie.
Esther 3:10	Then the King tooke his ring from his hand and gaue it vnto Haman the sonne of Hammedatha the Agagite the Iewes aduersarie.
Esther 3:11	And the King sayde vnto Haman, Let the siluer be thine, and the people to doe with them as it pleaseth thee.
Esther 3:12	Then were the Kings scribes called on the thirteenth day of the first moneth, and there was written (according to all that Haman commanded) vnto the Kings officers, and to the captaines that were ouer euery prouince, and to the rulers of euery people, and to euery prouince, according to the writing thereof, and to euery people according to their language: in the name of King Ahashuerosh was it written, and sealed with the Kings ring.
Esther 3:13	And the letters were sent by postes into all the Kings prouinces, to roote out, to kill and to destroy all the Iewes, both yong and olde, children and women, in one day vpon the thirteenth day of the twelft moneth, (which is the moneth Adar) and to spoyle them as a pray.
Esther 3:14	The contents of the writing was, that there shoulde be giuen a commandement in all prouinces, and published vnto all people, that they should be ready against the same day.
Esther 3:15	And the postes compelled by the Kings commandement went forth, and the commandement was giuen in the palace at Shushan: and the King and Haman sate drinking, but the citie of Shushan was in perplexitie.
Esther 4:1	Now when Mordecai perceiued all that was done, Mordecai rent his clothes, and put on sackecloth and ashes, and went out into the middes of the citie, and cryed with a great crye, and a bitter.
Esther 4:2	And he came euen before the Kings gate, but he might not enter within the Kings gate, being clothed with sackecloth.
Esther 4:3	And in euery prouince, and place, whither the Kings charge and his commission came, there was great sorowe among the Iewes, and fasting, and weeping and mourning, and many laye in sackecloth and in ashes.
Esther 4:4	Then Esters maydes and her eunuches came and tolde it her: therefore the Queene was very heauie, and she sent raiment to clothe Mordecai, and to take away his sackecloth from him, but he receiued it not.
Esther 4:5	Then called Ester Hatach one of the Kings eunuches, whom he had appointed to serue her, and gaue him a commandement vnto Mordecai, to knowe what it was, and why it was.
Esther 4:6	So Hatach went foorth to Mordecai vnto the streete of the citie, which was before the Kings gate.
Esther 4:7	And Mordecai tolde him of all that which had come vnto him, and of the summe of the siluer that Haman had promised to pay vnto the Kings treasures, because of the Iewes, for to destroy them.
Esther 4:8	Also he gaue him the copy of the writing and commission that was giuen at Shushan, to destroy them, that he might shewe it vnto Ester and declare it vnto her, and to charge her that she should goe in to the King, and make petition and supplication before him for her people.
Esther 4:9	So when Hatach came, he told Ester the wordes of Mordecai.
Esther 4:10	Then Ester sayde vnto Hatach, and commanded him to say vnto Mordecai,
Esther 4:11	All the Kings seruants and the people of the Kings prouinces doe knowe, that whosoeuer, man or woman, that commeth to the King into the inner court, which is not called, there is a law of his, that he shall dye, except him to whom the King holdeth out the golden rodde, that he may liue. Now I haue not bene called to come vnto the King these thirtie dayes.
Esther 4:12	And they certified Mordecai of Esters wordes.
Esther 4:13	And Mordecai saide, that they should answere Ester thus, Thinke not with thy selfe that thou shalt escape in the Kings house, more then all the Iewes.
Esther 4:14	For if thou holdest thy peace at this time, comfort and deliuerance shall appeare to the Iewes out of another place, but thou and thy fathers house shall perish: and who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdome for such a time?
Esther 4:15	Then Ester commanded to answere Mordecai,
Esther 4:16	Goe, and assemble all the Iewes that are found in Shushan, and fast ye for me, and eate not, nor drinke in three dayes, day nor night. I also and my maydes will fast likewise, and so will I go in to the King, which is not according to the lawe: and if I perish, I perish.
Esther 4:17	So Mordecai went his way, and did according to all that Ester had commanded him.
Esther 5:1	And on the third day Ester put on her royal apparel, and stood in the court of the Kings palace within, ouer against the Kings house: and the King sate vpon his royal throne in the Kings palace ouer against the gate of the house.
Esther 5:2	And when the King saw Ester the Queene standing in the court, shee founde fauour in his sight: and the King held out the golden scepter that was in his hand: so Ester drewe neere, and touched the toppe of the scepter.
Esther 5:3	Then saide the King vnto her, What wilt thou, Queene Ester? and what is thy request? it shall be euen giuen thee to the halfe of ye kingdome.
Esther 5:4	Then saide Ester, If it please the King, let the King and Haman come this day vnto the banket, that I haue prepared for him.
Esther 5:5	And the King sayd, Cause Haman to make haste that he may doe as Ester hath sayde. So the King and Haman came to the banket that Ester had prepared.
Esther 5:6	And the King sayd vnto Ester at the banket of wine, What is thy petition, that it may be giuen thee? and what is thy request? it shall euen be performed vnto the halfe of the kingdome.
Esther 5:7	Then answered Ester, and sayd, My petition and my request is,
Esther 5:8	If I haue found fauour in the sight of the King, and if it please the King to giue me my petition, and to perfourme my request, let the King and Haman come to the banket that I shall prepare for them, and I will doe to morowe according to the Kings saying.
Esther 5:9	Then went Haman forth the same day ioyfull and with a glad heart. But when Haman sawe Mordecai in the Kings gate, that he stoode not vp, nor moued for him, then was Haman full of indignation at Mordecai.
Esther 5:10	Neuerthelesse Haman refrayned himselfe: and when he came home, he sent, and called for his friends, and Zeresh his wife.
Esther 5:11	And Haman tolde them of the glory of his riches, and the multitude of his children, and all the things wherein the King had promoted him, and how that he had set him aboue the princes and seruants of the King.
Esther 5:12	Haman sayde moreouer, Yea, Ester the Queene did let no man come in with the King to the banket that she had prepared, saue me: and to morowe am I bidden vnto her also with the King.
Esther 5:13	But al this doth nothing auaile me, as long as I see Mordecai ye Iewe sitting at ye Kings gate.
Esther 5:14	Then sayde Zeresh his wife and all his friends vnto him, Let them make a tree of fiftie cubites hie, and to morowe speake thou vnto the King, that Mordecai may be hanged thereon: then shalt thou goe ioyfully with the King vnto the banket. And the thing pleased Haman, and he caused to make the tree.
Esther 6:1	The same night the King slept not, and he comanded to bring ye booke of the records, and the chronicles: and they were read before ye King.
Esther 6:2	Then it was found written that Mordecai had tolde of Bigtana, and Teresh two of the Kings eunuches, keepers of the dore, who sought to lay hands on the King Ahashuerosh.
Esther 6:3	Then the King sayde, What honour and dignitie hath bene giuen to Mordecai for this? And the Kings seruants that ministred vnto him, sayd, There is nothing done for him.
Esther 6:4	And the King sayde, Who is in the court? (Now Haman was come into the inner court of the Kings house, that he might speake vnto the King to hang Mordecai on the tree that he had prepared for him.)
Esther 6:5	And the Kings seruants said vnto him, Behold, Haman standeth in the court. And the King sayd, Let him come in.
Esther 6:6	And when Haman came in, the King saide vnto him, What shalbe done vnto ye man, whom the King will honour? Then Haman thought in his heart, To whom would the King do honour more then to me?
Esther 6:7	And Haman answered the King, The man whome the King would honour,
Esther 6:8	Let them bring for him royall apparell, which the King vseth to weare, and the horse that the King rideth vpon, and that the crowne royall may be set vpon his head.
Esther 6:9	And let the raiment and the horse be deliuered by the hand of one of the Kings most noble princes, and let them apparel the man (whome the King will honour) and cause him to ride vpon the horse thorow the streete of the citie, and proclayme before him, Thus shall it be done vnto the man, whome the King will honour.
Esther 6:10	Then the King said to Haman, Make haste, take the rayment and the horse as thou hast said, and doe so vnto Mordecai the Iewe, that sitteth at the Kings gate: let nothing fayle of all that thou hast spoken.
Esther 6:11	So Haman tooke the rayment and the horse, and arayed Mordecai, and brought him on horse backe thorowe the streete of the citie, and proclaymed before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the King will honour.
Esther 6:12	And Mordecai came againe to the Kings gate, but Haman hasted home mourning and his head couered.
Esther 6:13	And Haman tolde Zeresh his wife, and all his friends all that had befallen him. Then sayd his wise men, and Zeresh his wife vnto him, If Mordecai be of the seede of the Iewes, before whom thou hast begunne to fall; thou shalt not preuaile against him, but shalt surely fall before him.
Esther 6:14	And while they were yet talking with him, came the Kings eunuches and hasted to bring Haman vnto the banket that Ester had prepared.
Esther 7:1	So the King and Haman came to banket with the Queene Ester.
Esther 7:2	And the King said againe vnto Ester on the second day at the banket of wine, What is thy petition, Queene Ester, that it may be giue thee? and what is thy request? It shalbe euen perfourmed vnto the halfe of the kingdome.
Esther 7:3	And Ester the Queene answered, and said, If I haue found fauour in thy sight, O King, and if it please the King, let my life be giuen me at my petition, and my people at my request.
Esther 7:4	For we are solde, I, and my people, to be destroyed, to be slayne and to perish: but if we were solde for seruants, and for handmaides, I woulde haue helde my tongue: although the aduersarie could not recompense the Kings losse.
Esther 7:5	Then King Ahashuerosh answered, and said vnto the Queene Ester, Who is he? and where is he that presumeth to doe thus?
Esther 7:6	And Ester said, The aduersarie and enemie is this wicked Haman. Then Haman was afrayde before the King and the Queene.
Esther 7:7	And the King arose from ye banket of wine in his wrath, and went into the palace garden: but Haman stood vp, to make request for his life to the Queene Ester: for he sawe that there was a mischiefe prepared for him of the King.
Esther 7:8	And when the King came againe out of the palace garden, into the house where they dranke wine, Haman was fallen vpon the bed whereon Ester sate! therefore the King sayd, Will he force the Queene also before me in the house? As the worde went out of the Kings mouth, they couered Hamans face.
Esther 7:9	And Harbonah one of the eunuches, sayde in the presence of the King, Beholde, there standeth yet the tree in Hamans house fiftie cubites hie, which Haman had prepared for Mordecai, that spake good for the King. Then the King sayd, Hang him thereon.
Esther 7:10	So they hanged Haman on the tree, that he had prepared for Mordecai: then was the Kings wrath pacified.
Esther 8:1	The same day did King Ahashuerosh giue the house of Haman the aduersarie of the Iewes vnto the Queene Ester. and Mordecai came before the King: for Ester tolde what hee was vnto her.
Esther 8:2	And the King tooke off his ring, which he had taken from Haman, and gaue it vnto Mordecai: and Ester set Mordecai ouer the house of Haman.
Esther 8:3	And Ester spake yet more before the King, and fell downe at his feete weeping, and besought him that he would put away the wickednes of Haman the Agagite, and his deuice that he had imagined against the Iewes.
Esther 8:4	And the King held out the golden scepter toward Ester. Then arose Ester, and stood before the King,
Esther 8:5	And sayd, If it please the King, and if I haue found fauour in his sight, and the thing be acceptable before the King, and I please him, let it be written, that the letters of the deuice of Haman the sonne of Ammedatha the Agagite may be called againe, which he wrote to destroy the Iewes, that are in all the Kings prouinces.
Esther 8:6	For how can I suffer and see the euil, that shall come vnto my people? Or howe can I suffer and see the destruction of my kinred?
Esther 8:7	And the King Ahashuerosh sayde vnto the Queene Ester, and to Mordecai the Iewe, Behold, I haue giuen Ester the house of Haman, whome they haue hanged vpon the tree, because he layd hand vpon the Iewes.
Esther 8:8	Write yee also for the Iewes, as it liketh you in the Kinges name, and seale it with the Kings ring (for the writings written in the Kings name, and sealed with the Kings ring, may no man reuoke)
Esther 8:9	Then were the Kings Scribes called at the same time, euen in the thirde moneth, that is the moneth Siuan, on the three and twentieth day thereof: and it was written, according to all as Mordecai commanded, vnto the Iewes and to the princes, and captaines, and rulers of the prouinces, which were from India euen vnto Ethiopia, an hundreth and seuen and twentie prouinces, vnto euery prouince, according to the writing thereof, and to euery people after their speache, and to the Iewes, according to their writing, and according to their language.
Esther 8:10	And hee wrote in the King Ahashuerosh name, and sealed it with the Kings ring: and he sent letters by postes on horsebacke and that rode on beastes of price, as dromedaries and coltes of mares.
Esther 8:11	Wherein the King graunted the Iewes (in what cities so euer they were) to gather theselues together, and to stand for their life, and to roote out, to slay and to destroy al the power of the people and of the prouince that vexed them, both children and women, and to spoyle their goods:
Esther 8:12	Vpon one day in all the prouinces of King Ahashuerosh, euen in the thirteenth day of the twelft moneth, which is the moneth Adar.
Esther 8:13	The copie of the writing was, howe there should be a commandement giuen in all and euery prouince, published among all the people, and that the Iewes should be ready against that day to auenge themselues on their enemies.
Esther 8:14	So the postes rode vpon beasts of price, and dromedaries, and went forth with speede, to execute the Kings commandement, and the decree was giuen at Shushan the palace.
Esther 8:15	And Mordecai went out from the King in royall apparell of blewe, and white, and with a great crowne of gold, and with a garment of fine linen and purple, and the citie of Shushan reioyced and was glad.
Esther 8:16	And vnto the Iewes was come light and ioy and gladnes, and honour.
Esther 8:17	Also in all and euery prouince, and in al and euery citie and place, where the Kings commandement and his decree came, there was ioy and gladnes to the Iewes, a feast and good day, and many of the people of the land became Iewes: for the feare of the Iewes fell vpon them.
Esther 9:1	So in the twelft moneth, which is the moneth Adar, vpon the thirteenth daye of the same, when the Kings commandement and his decree drew neere to be put in execution, in the day that the enemies of the Iewes hoped to haue power ouer them (but it turned contrary: for the Iewes had rule ouer them that hated them)
Esther 9:2	The Iewes gathered themselues together into their cities throughout all the prouinces of the King Ahashuerosh, to lay hande on such as sought their hurt, and no man coulde withstande them: for the feare of them fel vpon al people.
Esther 9:3	And all the rulers of the prouinces, and the princes and the captaines, and the officers of the King exalted the Iewes: for the feare of Mordecai fell vpon them.
Esther 9:4	For Mordecai was great in the kings house, and the report of him went through all the prouinces: for this man Mordecai waxed greater and greater.
Esther 9:5	Thus the Iewes smote all their enemies with strokes of the sworde and slaughter, and destruction, and did what they woulde vnto those that hated them.
Esther 9:6	And at Shushan the palace slewe the Iewes and destroyed fiue hundreth men,
Esther 9:7	And Parshandatha, and Dalphon, and Aspatha,
Esther 9:8	And Poratha, and Adalia, and Aridatha,
Esther 9:9	And Parmashta, and Arisai, and Aridai, and Vaiezatha,
Esther 9:10	The ten sonnes of Haman, ye sonne of Ammedatha, the aduersarie of the Iewes slewe they: but they layd not their hands on the spoyle.
Esther 9:11	On the same day came ye nomber of those that were slayne, vnto the palace of Shushan before the King.
Esther 9:12	And the King sayd vnto the Queene Ester, The Iewes haue slayne in Shushan the palace and destroyed fiue hundreth men, and the ten sonnes of Haman: what haue they done in the rest of the Kings prouinces? and what is thy petition, that it may be giuen thee? or what is thy request moreouer, that it may be performed?
Esther 9:13	Then sayd Ester, If it please the King, let it be granted also to morow to the Iewes that are in Shushan, to do according vnto this daies decree, that they may hang vpon ye tree Hamans ten sonnes.
Esther 9:14	And the King charged to doe so, and the decree was giuen at Shushan, and they hanged Hamans ten sonnes.
Esther 9:15	So the Iewes that were in Shushan, assembled themselues vpon the fourteenth day of the moneth Adar, and slew three hundreth men in Shushan, but on the spoyle they layd not their hand.
Esther 9:16	And the rest of the Iewes that were in the Kings prouinces assembled themselues, and stood for their liues, and had rest from their enemies, and slewe of them that hated them, seuentie and fiue thousand: but they layd not their hand on the spoyle.
Esther 9:17	This they did on the thirteenth day of the moneth Adar, and rested the fourteenth day thereof, and kept it a day of feasting and ioy.
Esther 9:18	But the Iewes that were in Shushan assembled themselues on the thirteenth day, and on the fourteenth therof, and they rested on the fifteenth of the same, and kept it a day of feasting and ioy.
Esther 9:19	Therefore the Iewes of the villages that dwelt in the vnwalled townes, kept the foureteenth day of the moneth Adar with ioy and feasting, euen a ioyfull day, and euery one sent presents vnto his neighbour.
Esther 9:20	And Mordecai wrote these words, and sent letters vnto all the Iewes that were through all the prouinces of the King Ahashuerosh, both neere and farre,
Esther 9:21	Inioyning them that they shoulde keepe the fourteenth day of the moneth Adar, and the fifteenth day of the same, euery yeere.
Esther 9:22	According to the dayes wherein the Iewes rested from their enemies, and the moneth which was turned vnto them from sorowe to ioy, and from mourning into a ioyfull day, to keepe them the dayes of feasting, and ioy, and to sende presents euery man to his neyghbour, and giftes to the poore.
Esther 9:23	And the Iewes promised to do as they had begun, and as Mordecai had written vnto them,
Esther 9:24	Because Haman the sonne of Hammedatha the Agagite al the Iewes aduersarie, had imagined against the Iewes, to destroy them, and had cast Pur (that is a lot) to consume and destroy them.
Esther 9:25	And when she came before the King, he commanded by letters, Let this wicked deuise (which he imagined against the Iewes) turne vpon his owne head, and let them hang him and his sonnes on the tree.
Esther 9:26	Therfore they called these dayes Purim, by the name of Pur, and because of all the wordes of this letter, and of that which they had seene besides this, and of that which had come vnto them.
Esther 9:27	The Iewes also ordeined, and promised for them and for their seede, and for all that ioyned vnto them, that they would not faile to obserue those two dayes euery yeere, according to their writing, and according to their season,
Esther 9:28	And that these dayes shoulde be remembred, and kept throughout euery generation and euery familie, and euery prouince, and euery citie: euen these daies of Purim should not faile among the Iewes, and the memoriall of them should not perish from their seede.
Esther 9:29	And the Queene Ester ye daughter of Abihail and Mordecai the Iew wrote with al authoritie (to cofirme this letter of Purim ye second time)
Esther 9:30	And he sent letters vnto al the Iewes to the hundreth and seuen and twentie prouinces of the kingdome of Ahashuerosh, with words of peace and trueth,
Esther 9:31	To confirme these dayes of Purim, according to their seasons, as Mordecai the Iewe and Ester the Queene had appointed them, and as they had promised for them selues and for their seede with fasting and prayer.
Esther 9:32	And the decree of Ester confirmed these words of Purim, and was written in the booke.
Esther 10:1	And the King Ahashuerosh layd a tribute vpon the land, and vpon the yles of the sea.
Esther 10:2	And all the actes of his power, and of his might, and the declaration of the dignitie of Mordecai, wherwith the King magnified him, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Media and Persia?
Esther 10:3	For Mordecai the Iewe was the second vnto King Ahashuerosh, and great among the Iewes, and accepted among the multitude of his brethren, who procured the wealth of his people, and spake peaceably to all his seede.

===== BOOK: Exodus =====
Exodus 1:1	Now these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt (euery man and his housholde came thither with Iaakob)
Exodus 1:2	Reuben, Simeon, Leui, and Iudah,
Exodus 1:3	Issachar, Zebulun, and Beniamin,
Exodus 1:4	Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
Exodus 1:5	So al the soules, that came out of the loines of Iaakob, were seuentie soules: Ioseph was in Egypt already.
Exodus 1:6	Nowe Ioseph died and all his brethren, and that whole generation.
Exodus 1:7	And the children of Israel brought foorth fruite and encreased in aboundance, and were multiplied, and were exceeding mightie, so that the land was full of them.
Exodus 1:8	Then there rose vp a newe King in Egypt, who knewe not Ioseph.
Exodus 1:9	And he sayde vnto his people, Beholde, the people of the children of Israel are greater and mightier then we.
Exodus 1:10	Come, let vs worke wisely with them, least they multiplie, and it come to passe, that if there be warre, they ioyne them selues also vnto our enemies, and fight against vs, and get them out of the land.
Exodus 1:11	Therefore did they set taskemasters ouer them, to keepe the vnder with burdens: and they built the cities Pithom and Raamses for the treasures of Pharaoh.
Exodus 1:12	But the more they vexed them, the more they multiplied and grewe: therefore they were more grieued against the children of Israel.
Exodus 1:13	Wherefore the Egyptians by crueltie caused the children of Israel to serue.
Exodus 1:14	Thus they made them weary of their liues by sore labour in clay and in bricke, and in al worke in the fielde, with all maner of bondage, which they layde vpon them most cruelly.
Exodus 1:15	Moreouer the King of Egypt commanded ye midwiues of the Ebrewe women, (of which the ones name was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah)
Exodus 1:16	And sayde, When ye doe the office of a midwife to the women of the Ebrewes, and see them on their stooles, if it be a sonne, then yee shall kill him: but if it be a daughter, then let her liue.
Exodus 1:17	Notwithstanding ye midwiues feared God, and did not as the King of Egypt commanded them, but preserued aliue the men children.
Exodus 1:18	Then the King of Egypt called for the midwiues, and sayde vnto them, Why haue yee done thus, and haue preserued aliue the men children?
Exodus 1:19	And the midwiues answered Pharaoh, Because the Ebrewe women are not as the women of Egypt: for they are liuely, and are deliuered yer the midwife come at them.
Exodus 1:20	God therefore prospered the midwiues, and the people multiplied and were very mightie.
Exodus 1:21	And because ye midwiues feared God, therefore he made them houses.
Exodus 1:22	Then Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Euery man childe that is borne, cast yee into the riuer, but reserue euery maide childe aliue.
Exodus 2:1	Then there went a man of the house of Leui, and tooke to wife a daughter of Leui,
Exodus 2:2	And the woman coceiued and bare a sonne: and when she saw that he was faire, she hid him three moneths.
Exodus 2:3	But when she could no longer hide him, she tooke for him an arke made of reede, and daubed it with slime and with pitch, and laide the childe therein, and put it among the bulrushes by the riuers brinke.
Exodus 2:4	Now his sister stood a farre off, to wit what would come of him.
Exodus 2:5	Then ye daughter of Pharaoh came downe to wash her in the riuer, and her maidens walked by the riuers side: and when shee sawe the arke among the bulrushes, she sent her maide to fet it.
Exodus 2:6	Then she opened it, and sawe it was a childe: and beholde, the babe wept: so she had compassion on it, and sayde, This is one of the Ebrewes children.
Exodus 2:7	Then said his sister vnto Pharaohs daughter, Shall I go and cal vnto thee a nurce of the Ebrew women to nurce thee the childe?
Exodus 2:8	And Pharaohs daughter sayde to her, Goe. So the maide went and called the childes mother,
Exodus 2:9	To whome Pharaohs daughter sayde, Take this childe away, and nurce it for me, and I wil reward thee. Then the woman tooke the childe and nurced him.
Exodus 2:10	Nowe the childe grewe, and she brought him vnto Pharaohs daughter, and he was as her sonne, and she called his name Moses, because, said she, I drewe him out of the water.
Exodus 2:11	And in those dayes, when Moses was growen, he went forth vnto his brethren, and looked on their burdens: also he sawe an Egyptian smiting an Ebrewe one of his brethren.
Exodus 2:12	And he looked rounde about, and when he sawe no man, hee slewe the Egyptian, and hid him in the sande.
Exodus 2:13	Againe he came forth the second day, and behold, two Ebrewes stroue: and he said vnto him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellowe?
Exodus 2:14	And hee answered, Who made thee a man of authoritie, and a iudge ouer vs? Thinkest thou to kill mee, as thou killedst the Egyptian? Then Moses feared and sayde, Certainly this thing is knowen.
Exodus 2:15	Now Pharaoh heard this matter, and sought to slay Moses: therefore Moses fled from Pharaoh, and dwelt in the lande of Midian, and hee sate downe by a well.
Exodus 2:16	And the Priest of Midian had seue daughters, which came and drewe water, and filled the troghes, for to water their fathers sheepe.
Exodus 2:17	Then the shepherds came and droue them away: but Moses rose vp and defended them, and watered their sheepe.
Exodus 2:18	And whe they came to Reuel their father, he said, Howe are ye come so soone to day?
Exodus 2:19	And they saide, A man of Egypt deliuered vs from the hand of the shepherdes, and also drew vs water ynough, and watered the sheepe.
Exodus 2:20	Then he saide vnto his daughters, And where is he? why haue ye so left the man? call him that he may eate bread.
Exodus 2:21	And Moses agreed to dwell with the man: who gaue vnto Moses Zipporah his daughter:
Exodus 2:22	And she bare a sonne, whose name he called Gershom: for he said, I haue bene a stranger in a strange lande.
Exodus 2:23	Then in processe of time, the King of Egypt dyed, and the children of Israel sighed for the bondage and cryed: and their crie for the bondage came vp vnto God.
Exodus 2:24	Then God heard their mone, and God remembred his couenant with Abraham, Izhak, and Iaakob.
Exodus 2:25	So God looked vpon the children of Israel, and God had respect vnto them.
Exodus 3:1	When Moses kept the sheepe of Iethro his father in lawe, Priest of Midian, and droue the flocke to the backe side of the desert, and came to the Mountaine of God, Horeb,
Exodus 3:2	Then the Angel of the Lord appeared vnto him in a flame of fire, out of the middes of a bush: and he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed.
Exodus 3:3	Therefore Moses saide, I will turne aside nowe, and see this great sight, why the bush burneth not.
Exodus 3:4	And when the Lord sawe that he turned aside to see, God called vnto him out of the middes of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he answered, I am here.
Exodus 3:5	Then he saide, Come not hither, put thy shooes off thy feete: for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground.
Exodus 3:6	Moreouer he saide, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Izhak, and the God of Iaakob. Then Moses hid his face: for he was afraid to looke vpon God.
Exodus 3:7	Then the Lord said, I haue surely seene the trouble of my people, which are in Egypt, and haue heard their crie, because of their taskemasters: for I knowe their sorowes.
Exodus 3:8	Therefore I am come downe to deliuer them out of the hande of the Egyptians, and to bring them out of that lande into a good lande and a large, into a lande that floweth with milke and honie, euen into the place of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hiuites, and the Iebusites.
Exodus 3:9	And now lo, the crie of the children of Israel is come vnto me, and I haue also seene ye oppression, wherewith the Egyptians oppresse them.
Exodus 3:10	Come now therefore, and I will send thee vnto Pharaoh, that thou maiest bring my people the children of Israel out of Egypt.
Exodus 3:11	But Moses said vnto God, Who am I, that I should go vnto Pharaoh, and that I should bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?
Exodus 3:12	And he answered, Certainely I will be with thee: and this shall be a token vnto thee, that I haue sent thee, After that thou hast brought the people out of Egypt, ye shall serue God vpon this Mountaine.
Exodus 3:13	Then Moses said vnto God, Behold, when I shall come vnto the children of Israel, and shall say vnto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me vnto you: if they say vnto me, What is his Name? what shall I say vnto them?
Exodus 3:14	And God answered Moses, I Am That I Am. Also he said, Thus shalt thou say vnto the children of Israel, I Am hath sent me vnto you.
Exodus 3:15	And God spake further vnto Moses, Thus shalt thou say vnto the children of Israel, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Izhak, and the God of Iaakob hath sent me vnto you: this is my Name for euer, and this is my memoriall vnto all ages.
Exodus 3:16	Go and gather the Elders of Israel together, and thou shalt say vnto the, The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, Izhak, and Iaakob appeared vnto me, and said, I haue surely remembred you, and that which is done to you in Egypt.
Exodus 3:17	Therefore I did say, I wil bring you out of the affliction of Egypt vnto the land of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hiuites, and the Iebusites, vnto a lande that floweth with milke and honie.
Exodus 3:18	Then shall they obey thy voyce, and thou and the Elders of Israel shall go vnto the King of Egypt, and say vnto him, The Lord God of the Ebrewes hath met with vs: we pray thee nowe therefore, let vs goe three dayes iourney in the wildernesse, that we may sacrifice vnto the Lord our God.
Exodus 3:19	But I know, that the King of Egypt wil not let you goe, but by strong hande.
Exodus 3:20	Therefore will I stretch out mine hande and smite Egypt with all my wonders, which I will doe in the middes thereof: and after that shall he let you goe.
Exodus 3:21	And I will make this people to be fauoured of the Egyptians: so that when ye go, ye shall not goe emptie.
Exodus 3:22	For euery woman shall aske of her neighbour, and of her that soiourneth in her house, iewels of siluer and iewels of gold and raiment, and ye shall put them on your sonnes, and on your daughters, and shall spoyle the Egyptians.
Exodus 4:1	Then Moses answered, and said, But lo, they will not beleeue me, nor hearken vnto my voyce: for they will say, The Lord hath not appeared vnto thee.
Exodus 4:2	And the Lord said vnto him, What is that in thine hande? And he answered, A rod.
Exodus 4:3	Then said he, Cast it on the ground. So he cast it on the grounde, and it was turned into a serpent: and Moses fled from it.
Exodus 4:4	Againe the Lord saide vnto Moses, Put foorth thine hand, and take it by the tayle. Then he put foorth his hande and caught it, and it was turned into a rod in his hand.
Exodus 4:5	Do this that they may beleeue, that the Lord God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Izhak, and the God of Iaakob hath appeared vnto thee.
Exodus 4:6	And the Lord saide furthermore vnto him, Thrust nowe thine hand into thy bosome. And he thrust his hand into his bosome, and when he tooke it out againe, behold, his hand was leprous as snowe.
Exodus 4:7	Moreouer he said, Put thine hand into thy bosome againe. So he put his hande into his bosome againe, and pluckt it out of his bosome, and behold, it was turned againe as his other flesh.
Exodus 4:8	So shall it be, if they wil not beleeue thee, neither obey the voyce of ye first signe, yet shall they beleeue for the voyce of the seconde signe.
Exodus 4:9	But if they will not yet beleeue these two signes, neither obey vnto thy voyce, then shalt thou take of the water of the riuer, and powre it vpon the drie lande: so the water which thou shalt take out of the riuer, shalbe turned to blood vpon the drie land.
Exodus 4:10	But Moses said vnto the Lord, Oh my Lord, I am not eloquent, neither at any time haue bene, nor yet since thou hast spoken vnto thy seruant: but I am slowe of speach and slowe of tongue.
Exodus 4:11	Then the Lord said vnto him, Who hath giuen the mouth to man? or who hath made the domme, or the deafe, or him that seeth, or the blinde? haue not I the Lord?
Exodus 4:12	Therefore goe nowe, and I will be with thy mouth, and will teach thee what thou shalt say.
Exodus 4:13	But he saide, Oh my Lord, sende, I pray thee, by the hande of him, whome thou shouldest sende.
Exodus 4:14	Then the Lord was verie angrie with Moses, and said, Doe not I know Aaron thy brother the Leuite, that he himselfe shall speake? for loe, he commeth also foorth to meete thee, and when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart.
Exodus 4:15	Therefore thou shalt speake vnto him, and put the wordes in his mouth, and I will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye ought to doe.
Exodus 4:16	And he shall be thy spokesman vnto the people: and he shall be, euen he shall be as thy mouth, and thou shalt be to him as God.
Exodus 4:17	Moreouer thou shalt take this rod in thine hand, wherewith thou shalt do miracles.
Exodus 4:18	Therefore Moses went and returned to Iethro his father in lawe, and said vnto him, I pray thee, let me goe, and returne to my brethren, which are in Egypt, and see whether they be yet aliue. Then Iethro said to Moses, Go in peace.
Exodus 4:19	(For the Lord had said vnto Moses in Midian, Goe, returne to Egypt: for they are all dead which went about to kill thee)
Exodus 4:20	Then Moses tooke his wife, and his sonnes, and put them on an asse, and returned towarde the lande of Egypt, and Moses tooke the rod of God in his hand.
Exodus 4:21	And the Lord saide vnto Moses, When thou art entred and come into Egypt againe, see that thou doe all the wonders before Pharaoh, which I haue put in thine hand: but I will harden his heart, and he shall not let the people goe.
Exodus 4:22	Then thou shalt say to Pharaoh, Thus saith the Lord, Israel is my sonne, euen my first borne.
Exodus 4:23	Wherefore I say to thee, Let my sonne go, that he may serue me: if thou refuse to let him goe, beholde, I will slay thy sonne, euen thy first borne.
Exodus 4:24	And as he was by the waye in the ynne, the Lord met him, and would haue killed him.
Exodus 4:25	Then Zipporah tooke a sharpe knife, and cut away the foreskinne of her sonne, and cast it at his feete, and said, Thou art indeede a bloody husband vnto me.
Exodus 4:26	So he departed from him. Then she saide, O bloodie husband (because of the circumcision)
Exodus 4:27	Then the Lord saide vnto Aaron, Goe meete Moses in the wildernesse. And he went and mette him in the Mount of God, and kissed him.
Exodus 4:28	Then Moses tolde Aaron all the wordes of the Lord, who had sent him, and all the signes wherewith he had charged him.
Exodus 4:29	So went Moses and Aaron, and gathered all the Elders of the children of Israel.
Exodus 4:30	And Aaron told all the wordes, which the Lord had spoken vnto Moses, and he did the miracles in the sight of the people,
Exodus 4:31	And the people beleeued, and when they heard that the Lord had visited the children of Israel, and had looked vpon their tribulation, they bowed downe, and worshipped.
Exodus 5:1	Then afterwarde Moses and Aaron went and said to Pharaoh, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Let my people go, that they may celebrate a feast vnto me in the wildernesse.
Exodus 5:2	And Pharaoh saide, Who is the Lord, that I should heare his voyce, and let Israel go? I knowe not the Lord, neither will I let Israel goe.
Exodus 5:3	And they saide, We worship the God of the Ebrewes: we pray thee, let vs goe three daies iourney in the desert, and sacrifice vnto the Lord our God, least he bring vpon vs the pestilence or sword.
Exodus 5:4	Then saide the King of Egypt vnto them, Moses and Aaron, why cause ye the people to cease from their workes? get you to your burdens.
Exodus 5:5	Pharaoh saide furthermore, Behold, much people is nowe in the lande, and ye make them leaue their burdens.
Exodus 5:6	Therefore Pharaoh gaue commandement the same day vnto the taskemasters of the people, and to their officers, saying,
Exodus 5:7	Ye shall giue the people no more strawe, to make bricke (as in time past) but let them goe and gather them strawe them selues:
Exodus 5:8	Notwithstanding lay vpon them the nober of bricke, which they made in time past, diminish nothing thereof: for they be idle, therefore they crie, saying, Let vs go to offer sacrifice vnto our God.
Exodus 5:9	Lay more worke vpon the men, and cause them to do it, and let the not regard vaine words.
Exodus 5:10	Then went the taskemasters of the people and their officers out, and tolde the people, saying, Thus saith Pharaoh, I will giue you no more strawe.
Exodus 5:11	Goe your selues, get you strawe where yee can finde it, yet shall nothing of your labour bee diminished.
Exodus 5:12	Then were the people scattered abroade throughout all the land of Egypt, for to gather stubble in steade of strawe.
Exodus 5:13	And the taskemasters hasted them, saying, Finish your dayes worke euery dayes taske, as ye did when ye had strawe.
Exodus 5:14	And the officers of the children of Israel, which Pharaohs taskemasters had set ouer them, were beaten, and demanded, Wherefore haue ye not fulfilled your taske in making bricke yesterday and to daye, as in times past?
Exodus 5:15	Then the officers of the children of Israel came, and cryed vnto Pharaoh, saying, Wherfore dealest thou thus with thy seruants?
Exodus 5:16	There is no strawe giuen to thy seruantes, and they say vnto vs, Make bricke: and loe, thy seruants are beaten, and thy people is blamed.
Exodus 5:17	But he said, Ye are to much idle: therfore ye say, Let vs goe to offer sacrifice to the Lord.
Exodus 5:18	Goe therefore nowe and worke: for there shall no strawe be giuen you, yet shall yee deliuer the whole tale of bricke.
Exodus 5:19	Then the officers of the children of Israel sawe them selues in an euill case, because it was saide, Ye shall diminish nothing of your bricke, nor of euery dayes taske.
Exodus 5:20	And they met Moses and Aaron, which stood in their way as they came out from Pharaoh,
Exodus 5:21	To whom they said, The Lord looke vpon you and iudge: for yee haue made our sauour to stinke before Pharaoh and before his seruants, in that ye haue put a sword in their hand to slay vs.
Exodus 5:22	Wherefore Moses returned to the Lord, and saide, Lord, why hast thou afflicted this people? wherefore hast thou thus sent me?
Exodus 5:23	For since I came to Pharaoh to speake in thy Name, he hath vexed this people, and yet thou hast not deliuered thy people.
Exodus 6:1	Then the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Nowe shalt thou see, what I will doe vnto Pharaoh: for by a strong hand shall he let them goe, and euen be constrained to driue them out of his land.
Exodus 6:2	Moreouer God spake vnto Moses, and sayd vnto him, I am the Lord,
Exodus 6:3	And I appeared vnto Abraham, to Izhak, and to Iaakob by the Name of Almightie God: but by my Name Iehouah was I not knowen vnto the.
Exodus 6:4	Furthermore as I made my couenant with them to giue them ye land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherein they were strangers:
Exodus 6:5	So I haue also hearde the groning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keepe in bondage, and haue remembred my couenant.
Exodus 6:6	Wherefore say thou vnto the children of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from the burdens of the Egyptians, and will deliuer you out of their bondage, and will redeeme you in a stretched out arme, and in great iudgements.
Exodus 6:7	Also I will take you for my people, and will be your God: then ye shall knowe that I the Lord your God bring you out from the burdens of the Egyptians.
Exodus 6:8	And I will bring you into the land which I sware that I woulde giue to Abraham, to Izhak, and to Iaakob, and I will giue it vnto you for a possession: I am the Lord.
Exodus 6:9	So Moses told the children of Israel thus: but they hearkened not vnto Moses, for anguish of spirit and for cruel bondage.
Exodus 6:10	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 6:11	Go speak to Pharaoh King of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel goe out of his land.
Exodus 6:12	But Moses spake before the Lord, saying, Beholde, the children of Israel hearken not vnto me, howe then shall Pharaoh heare mee, which am of vncircumcised lippes?
Exodus 6:13	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses and vnto Aaron, and charged them to goe to the children of Israel and to Pharaoh King of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 6:14	These bee the heades of their fathers houses: the sonnes of Reuben the first borne of Israel are Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi: these are ye families of Reuben.
Exodus 6:15	Also the sonnes of Simeon: Iemuel and Iamin, and Ohad, and Iachin, and Zoar, and Shaul the sonne of a Canaanitish woman: these are the families of Simeon.
Exodus 6:16	These also are the names of the sonnes of Leui in their generations: Gershon and Kohath and Merari (and the yeres of the life of Leui were an hundreth thirtie and seuen yere)
Exodus 6:17	The sonnes of Gershon were Libni and Shimi by their families.
Exodus 6:18	And the sonnes of Kohath, Amram and Izhar, and Hebron, and Vzziel. (and Kohath liued an hundreth thirtie and three yeere)
Exodus 6:19	Also the sonnes of Merari were Mahali and Mushi: these are ye families of Leui by their kinreds.
Exodus 6:20	And Amram tooke Iochebed his fathers sister to his wife, and shee bare him Aaron and Moses (and Amram liued an hundreth thirtie and seuen yeere)
Exodus 6:21	Also the sonnes of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.
Exodus 6:22	And the sonnes of Vzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri.
Exodus 6:23	And Aaron tooke Elisheba daughter of Amminadab, sister of Nahashon to his wife, which bare him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
Exodus 6:24	Also the sonnes of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: these are the families of the Korhites.
Exodus 6:25	And Eleazar Aarons sonne tooke him one of the daughters of Putiel to his wife, which bare him Phinehas: these are the principall fathers of the Leuites throughout their families.
Exodus 6:26	These are Aaron and Moses to whom the Lord said, Bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt, according to their armies.
Exodus 6:27	These are that Moses and Aaron, which spake to Pharaoh King of Egypt, that they might bring the children of Israel out of Egypt.
Exodus 6:28	And at that time when the Lord spake vnto Moses in the land of Egypt,
Exodus 6:29	When the Lord, I say, spake vnto Moses, saying, I am the Lord, speake thou vnto Pharaoh the King of Egypt all that I say vnto thee,
Exodus 6:30	Then Moses said before the Lord, Behold, I am of vncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh heare me?
Exodus 7:1	Then the Lord saide to Moses, Behold, I haue made thee Pharaohs God, and Aaron thy brother shall be thy Prophet.
Exodus 7:2	Thou shalt speake all that I commanded thee: and Aaron thy brother shall speake vnto Pharaoh, that he suffer the children of Israel to go out of his land.
Exodus 7:3	But I will harden Pharaohs heart, and multiplie my miracles and my wonders in the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 7:4	And Pharaoh shall not hearken vnto you, that I may lay mine hand vpon Egypt, and bring out myne armies, euen my people, the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt, by great iudgements.
Exodus 7:5	Then the Egyptians shall knowe that I am the Lord, when I stretch foorth mine hand vpon Egypt, and bring out the children of Israel from among them.
Exodus 7:6	So Moses and Aaron did as the Lord commanded them, euen so did they.
Exodus 7:7	(Nowe Moses was foure score yeere olde, and Aaron foure score and three, when they spake vnto Pharaoh)
Exodus 7:8	And the Lord had spoken vnto Moses and Aaron, saying,
Exodus 7:9	If Pharaoh speake vnto you, saying, Shewe a miracle for you, then thou shalt say vnto Aaron, Take thy rod, and cast it before Pharaoh, and it shalbe turned into a serpent.
Exodus 7:10	Then went Moses and Aaron vnto Pharaoh, and did euen as the Lord had commanded: and Aaron cast forth his rod before Pharaoh and before his seruants, and it was turned into a serpent.
Exodus 7:11	Then Pharaoh called also for the wise men and sorcerers: and those charmers also of Egypt did in like maner with their enchantmens,
Exodus 7:12	For they cast downe euery man his rod, and they were turned into serpents: but Aarons rodde deuoured their rods.
Exodus 7:13	So Pharaohs heart was hardened, and hee hearkened not to them, as the Lord had saide.
Exodus 7:14	The Lord then saide vnto Moses, Pharaohs heart is obstinate, hee refuseth to let the people goe.
Exodus 7:15	Goe vnto Pharaoh in the morning, (loe, he will come forth vnto the water) and thou shalt stand and meete him by the riuers brinke, and the rod, which was turned into a serpent, shalt thou take in thine hand.
Exodus 7:16	And thou shalt say vnto him, The Lord God of the Ebrewes hath sent me vnto thee, saying, Let my people goe, that they may serue mee in the wildernesse: and beholde, hitherto thou wouldest not heare.
Exodus 7:17	Thus saith the Lord, In this shalt thou know that I am the Lord: behold, I wil smite with the rodde that is in mine hand vpon the water that is in the riuer, and it shalbe turned to blood.
Exodus 7:18	And the fish that is in the riuer shall dye, and the riuer shall stinke, and it shall grieue the Egyptians to drinke of the water of the riuer.
Exodus 7:19	The Lord then spake to Moses, Say vnto Aaron, Take thy rod, and stretch out thine hand ouer the waters of Egypt, ouer their streames, ouer their riuers, and ouer their pondes,, and ouer all pooles of their waters, and they shalbe blood, and there shalbe blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood, and of stone.
Exodus 7:20	So Moses and Aaron did euen as the Lord commanded: and hee lift vp the rodde, and smote the water that was in the riuer in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his seruants: and all the water that was in the riuer, was turned into blood.
Exodus 7:21	And the fish that was in the ryuer dyed, and the riuer stanke: so that the Egyptians could not drinke of the water of the riuer: and there was blood throughout all the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 7:22	And the enchanters of Egypt did likewise with their sorceries: and the heart of Phraoh was hardened: so that he did not hearken vnto them, as the Lord had sayde.
Exodus 7:23	Then Pharaoh returned, and went againe into his house, neither did this yet enter into his heart.
Exodus 7:24	All the Egyptians then digged rounde about the riuer for waters to drinke: for they could not drinke of the water of the riuer.
Exodus 7:25	And this continued fully seuen dayes after the Lord had smitten the riuer.
Exodus 8:1	Afterward the Lord sayde vnto Moses, Goe vnto Pharaoh, and tell him, Thus saith the Lord, Let my people goe, that they may serue me:
Exodus 8:2	And if thou wilt not let them goe, beholde, I will smite all thy countrey with frogges:
Exodus 8:3	And the riuer shall scral ful of frogges, which shall goe vp and come into thine house, and into thy chamber, where thou sleepest, and vpon thy bed, and into the house of thy seruants, and vpon thy people, and into thine ouens, and into thy kneading troughes.
Exodus 8:4	Yea, the frogges shall climbe vp vpon thee, and on thy people, and vpon all thy seruants.
Exodus 8:5	Also the Lord said vnto Moses, Say thou vnto Aaron, Stretch out thine hande with thy rod vpon the streames, vpon the riuers, and vpon the ponds, and cause frogs to come vp vpon the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:6	Then Aaron stretched out his hand vpon the waters of Egypt, and the frogges came vp, and couered the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:7	And the sorcerers did likewise with their sorceries, and brought frogges vp vpon the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:8	Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, Pray ye vnto the Lord, that hee may take away the frogges from mee, and from my people, and I will let the people goe, that they may doe sacrifice vnto the Lord.
Exodus 8:9	And Moses said vnto Pharaoh, Concerning me, euen command when I shall pray for thee, and for thy seruants, and for thy people, to destroy the frogges from thee and from thine houses, that they may remaine in the riuer only.
Exodus 8:10	Then he said, To morowe. And he answered, Be it as thou hast said, that thou maiest know, that there is none like vnto the Lord our God.
Exodus 8:11	So the frogges shall depart from thee, and from thine houses, and from thy seruantes, and from thy people: onely they shall remaine in the riuer.
Exodus 8:12	Then Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh: and Moses cryed vnto the Lord concerning the frogges, which hee had sent vnto Pharaoh.
Exodus 8:13	And the Lord did according to the saying of Moses: so the frogges died in the houses, in the townes, and in the fieldes.
Exodus 8:14	And they gathered the together by heaps, and the land stanke of them.
Exodus 8:15	But when Pharaoh sawe that hee had rest giuen him, he hardened his heart, and hearkened not vnto them, as the Lord had said.
Exodus 8:16	Againe the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Say vnto Aaron, Stretche out the rod, and smite the dust of the earth, that it may bee turned to lyce throughout all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:17	And they did so: for Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod, and smote the dust of the earth: and lyce came vpon man and vpon beast: all the dust of the earth was lyce throughout all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:18	Nowe the enchanters assaied likewise with their enchantments to bring forth lyce, but they could not. So the lyce were vpon man and vpon beast.
Exodus 8:19	Then saide the enchanters vnto Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. But Pharaohs heart remained obstinate, and hee hearkened not vnto them, as the Lord had said.
Exodus 8:20	Moreouer the Lord sayd to Moses, Rise vp earely in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh (lo, hee will come forth vnto the water) and say vnto him, Thus saith the Lord, Let my people go, that they may serue me.
Exodus 8:21	Els, if thou wilt not let my people goe, behold, I will send swarmes of flies both vpon thee, and vpon thy seruants, and vpon thy people, and into thine houses: and the houses of the Egyptians shalbe full of swarmes of flies, and the ground also whereon they are.
Exodus 8:22	But ye land of Goshe, where my people are, wil I cause to be wonderfull in that day, so that no swarmes of flies shalbe there, that thou maiest know that I am the Lord in the middes of the earth.
Exodus 8:23	And I will make a deliuerance of my people from thy people: to morowe shall this miracle be.
Exodus 8:24	And the Lord did so: for there came great swarmes of flies into the house of Pharaoh, and into his seruants houses, so that through all the lande of Egypt, the earth was corrupt by the swarmes of flies.
Exodus 8:25	Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and saide, Goe, doe sacrifice vnto your God in this lande.
Exodus 8:26	But Moses answered, It is not meete to do so: for then we shoulde offer vnto the Lord our God that, which is an abomination vnto the Egyptians. Loe, can we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and they not stone vs?
Exodus 8:27	Let vs go three dayes iourney in the desert, and sacrifice vnto the Lord our God, as he hath commanded vs.
Exodus 8:28	And Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice vnto the Lord your God in the wildernesse: but goe not farre away, pray for me.
Exodus 8:29	And Moses said, Behold, I will go out from thee, and pray vnto the Lord, that the swarmes of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his seruants, and from his people to morowe: but let Pharaoh from hencefoorth deceiue no more, in not suffering the people to sacrifice vnto the Lord.
Exodus 8:30	So Moses went out from Pharaoh and prayed vnto the Lord.
Exodus 8:31	And the Lord did according to the saying of Moses, and the swarmes of flies departed from Pharaoh, from his seruants, and from his people, and there remained not one.
Exodus 8:32	Yet Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, and did not let the people goe.
Exodus 9:1	Then the Lord said vnto Moses, Go to Pharaoh, and tell him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Ebrewes, Let my people go, that they may serue me.
Exodus 9:2	But if thou refuse to let them goe, and wilt yet holde them still,
Exodus 9:3	Beholde, the hande of the Lord is vpon thy flocke which is in the fielde: for vpon the horses, vpon the asses, vpon the camels, vpon the cattell, and vpon the sheepe shalbe a mightie great moraine.
Exodus 9:4	And the Lord shall doe wonderfully betweene the beastes of Israel, and the beastes of Egypt: so that there shall nothing dye of all, that pertaineth to the children of Israel.
Exodus 9:5	And the Lord appointed a time, saying, To morowe the Lord shall finish this thing in this lande.
Exodus 9:6	So the Lord did this thing on the morow, and all the cattel of Egypt dyed: but of the cattell of the children of Israel dyed not one.
Exodus 9:7	Then Pharaoh sent, and beholde, there was not one of the cattell of the Israelites dead: and the heart of Pharaoh was obstinate, and hee did not let the people goe.
Exodus 9:8	And the Lord said to Moses and to Aaron, Take your handfull of ashes of the fornace, and Moses shall sprinkle them towarde the heauen in the sight of Pharaoh,
Exodus 9:9	And they shall be turned to dust in all the land of Egypt: and it shalbe as a scab breaking out into blisters vpon man, and vpon beast, thorow out all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 9:10	Then they tooke ashes of the fornace, and stoode before Pharaoh: and Moses sprinkled them towarde the heauen, and there came a scab breaking out into blisters vpon man, and vpon beast.
Exodus 9:11	And the sorcerers could not stande before Moses, because of the scab: for the scab was vpon the enchanters, and vpon all the Egyptians.
Exodus 9:12	And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not vnto them, as the Lord had said vnto Moses.
Exodus 9:13	Also the Lord said vnto Moses, Rise vp early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh, and tell him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Ebrewes, Let my people goe, that they may serue me.
Exodus 9:14	For I will at this time send all my plagues vpon thine heart, and vpon thy seruants, and vpon thy people, that thou mayest knowe that there is none like me in all the earth.
Exodus 9:15	For nowe I will stretch out mine hande, that I may smite thee and thy people with the pestilence: and thou shalt perish from the earth.
Exodus 9:16	And in deede, for this cause haue I appointed thee, to shewe my power in thee, and to declare my Name throughout all the world.
Exodus 9:17	Yet thou exaltest thy selfe against my people, and lettest them not goe.
Exodus 9:18	Beholde, to morowe this time I will cause to raine a mightie great haile, such as was not in Egypt since the foundation thereof was laid vnto this time.
Exodus 9:19	Send therefore nowe, and gather the cattell, and all that thou hast in the fielde: for vpon all the men, and the beastes, which are found in the field, and not brought home, the haile shall fall vpon them, and they shall die.
Exodus 9:20	Such then as feared the word of the Lord among the seruants of Pharaoh, made his seruants and his cattell flee into the houses:
Exodus 9:21	But such as regarded not the worde of the Lord, left his seruants, and his cattell in the fielde.
Exodus 9:22	And the Lord saide to Moses, Stretche foorth thine hande towarde heauen, that there may be haile in all the land of Egypt, vpon man, and vpon beast, and vpon all the herbes of the fielde in the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 9:23	Then Moses stretched out his rod towarde heauen, and the Lord sent thunder and haile, and lightening vpon the ground: and the Lord caused haile to raine vpon the land of Egypt.
Exodus 9:24	So there was haile, and fire mingled with the haile, so grieuous, as there was none throughout all the lande of Egypt, since it was a nation.
Exodus 9:25	And the haile smote throughout al ye land of Egypt all that was in the fielde, both man and beast: also ye haile smote all the herbes of ye field, and brake to pieces all the trees of the fielde.
Exodus 9:26	Onely in the lande of Goshen (where the children of Israel were) was no haile.
Exodus 9:27	Then Pharaoh sent and called for Moses and Aaron, and said vnto them, I haue now sinned: the Lord is righteous, but I and my people are wicked.
Exodus 9:28	Pray ye vnto the Lord (for it is ynough) that there be no more mightie thunders and haile, and I will let you goe, and yee shall tarie no longer.
Exodus 9:29	Then Moses saide vnto him, Assoone as I am out of the citie, I will spreade mine hands vnto the Lord, and the thunder shall cease, neither shall there be any more haile, that thou mayest knowe that the earth is the Lordes.
Exodus 9:30	As for thee and thy seruants, I knowe afore I pray ye will feare before the face of the Lord God.
Exodus 9:31	(And the flaxe, and the barley were smitten: for the barley was eared, and the flaxe was bolled.
Exodus 9:32	But the wheat and the rye were not smitten, for they were hid in the grounde)
Exodus 9:33	Then Moses went out of the citie from Pharaoh, and spred his hands to the Lord, and the thunder and the haile ceased, neither rained it vpon the earth.
Exodus 9:34	And when Pharaoh sawe that the raine and the haile and the thunder were ceased, hee sinned againe, and hardened his heart, both he, and his seruants.
Exodus 9:35	So the heart of Pharaoh was hardened: neither would he let the children of Israel goe, as the Lord had said by Moses.
Exodus 10:1	Againe the Lord saide vnto Moses, Goe to Pharaoh: for I haue hardened his heart, and the heart of his seruants, that I might worke these my miracles in the middes of his realme,
Exodus 10:2	And that thou maist declare in the eares of thy sonne, and of thy sonnes sonne, what things I haue done in Egypt, and my miracles, which I haue done among them: that ye may knowe that I am the Lord.
Exodus 10:3	Then came Moses and Aaron vnto Pharaoh, and they said vnto him, Thus saith the Lord God of the Ebrewes, Howe long wilt thou refuse to humble thy selfe before me? Let my people goe, that they may serue me.
Exodus 10:4	But if thou refuse to let my people go, beholde, to morowe will I bring grashoppers into thy coastes.
Exodus 10:5	And they shall couer the face of the earth, that a man can not see the earth: and they shall eate the residue which remaineth vnto you, and hath escaped from the haile: and they shall eate all your trees that bud in the fielde.
Exodus 10:6	And they shall fil thine houses, and all thy seruants houses, and the houses of all the Egyptians, as neither thy fathers, nor thy fathers fathers haue seene, since the time they were vpon the earth vnto this day. So he returned, and went out from Pharaoh.
Exodus 10:7	Then Pharaohs seruants saide vnto him, How long shall he be an offence vnto vs? let the men go, that they may serue the Lord their God: wilt thou first knowe that Egypt is destroyed?
Exodus 10:8	So Moses and Aaron were brought againe vnto Pharaoh, and he saide vnto them, Goe, serue the Lord your God, but who are they that shall goe?
Exodus 10:9	And Moses answered, We will go with our yong and with our olde, with our sonnes and with our daughters, with our sheepe and with our cattell will we goe: for we must celebrate a feast vnto the Lord.
Exodus 10:10	And he said vnto them, Let the Lord so be with you, as I will let you goe and your children: beholde, for euill is before your face.
Exodus 10:11	It shall not be so: nowe goe ye that are men, and serue the Lord: for that was your desire. Then they were thrust out from Pharaohs presence.
Exodus 10:12	After, the Lord said vnto Moses, Stretch out thine hande vpon the lande of Egypt for the grashoppers, that they may come vpon the lande of Egypt, and eate all the herbes of the land, euen all that the haile hath left.
Exodus 10:13	Then Moses stretched foorth his rod vpon the lande of Egypt: and the Lord brought an East winde vpon the land all that day, and al that night: and in the morning the East wind brought the grashoppers.
Exodus 10:14	So the grashoppers went vp vpon all the land of Egypt, and remained in all quarters of Egypt: so grieuous Grashoppers, like to these were neuer before, neither after them shalbe such.
Exodus 10:15	For they couered all the face of the earth, so that the lande was darke: and they did eate all the herbes of the lande, and all the fruites of the trees, which the haile had left, so that there was no greene thing left vpon the trees, nor among the herbes of the fielde throughout all the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 10:16	Therefore Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste, and sayde, I haue sinned against the Lord your God, and against you.
Exodus 10:17	And nowe forgiue mee my sinne onely this once, and pray vnto the Lord your God, that hee may take away from me this death onely.
Exodus 10:18	Moses then went out from Pharaoh, and prayed vnto the Lord.
Exodus 10:19	And the Lord turned a mightie strong West winde, and tooke away the grashoppers, and violently cast them into the red Sea, so that there remained not one grashopper in all the coast of Egypt.
Exodus 10:20	But the Lord hardened Pharaohs heart, and hee did not let the children of Israel goe.
Exodus 10:21	Againe ye Lord said vnto Moses, Stretch out thine hand toward heauen, that there may be vpon the lande of Egypt darkenesse, euen darkenesse that may be felt.
Exodus 10:22	Then Moses stretched forth his hande towarde heauen, and there was a blacke darkenesse in all the land of Egypt three daies.
Exodus 10:23	No man saw an other, neither rose vp from ye place where he was for three dayes: but all the children of Israel had light where they dwelt.
Exodus 10:24	The Pharaoh called for Moses and said, Go, serue the Lord: onely your sheepe and your cattel shall abide, and your children shall go with you.
Exodus 10:25	And Moses sayd, Thou must giue vs also sacrifices, and burnt offrings that wee may doe sacrifice vnto the Lord our God.
Exodus 10:26	Therefore our cattell also shall go with vs: there shall not an hoofe bee left, for thereof must we take to serue the Lord our God: neither doe wee knowe howe we shall serue the Lord, vntill we come thither.
Exodus 10:27	(But the Lord hardened Pharaohs heart, and he would not let them goe)
Exodus 10:28	And Pharaoh sayde vnto him, Get thee from mee: looke thou see my face no more: for whensoeuer thou commest in my sight, thou shalt dye.
Exodus 10:29	Then Moses said, Thou hast said well: from henceforth will I see thy face no more.
Exodus 11:1	Now the Lord had saide vnto Moses, yet will I bring one plague more vpon Pharaoh, and vpon Egypt: after that, he will let you go hence: when he letteth you goe, he shall at once chase you hence.
Exodus 11:2	Speake thou nowe to the people, that euery man require of his neighbour, and euery woman of her neighbour iewels of siluer and iewels of gold.
Exodus 11:3	And the Lord gaue the people fauour in the sight of the Egyptians: also Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaohs seruantes, and in the sight of the people.)
Exodus 11:4	Also Moses sayde, Thus sayth the Lord, About midnight will I goe out into the middes of Egypt.
Exodus 11:5	And all the first borne in the lande of Egypt shall die, from the first borne of Pharaoh that sitteth on his throne, vnto the first borne of the maide seruant, that is at the mille, and all the first borne of beastes.
Exodus 11:6	Then there shalbe a great crie throughout all the land of Egypt, such as was neuer none like, nor shalbe.
Exodus 11:7	But against none of ye children of Israel shall a dogge moue his tongue, neyther against man nor beast, that ye may knowe that the Lord putteth a difference betweene the Egyptians and Israel.
Exodus 11:8	And all these thy seruants shall come downe vnto me, and fal before me, saying, Get thee out, and all the people that are at thy feete, and after this will I depart. So he went out from Pharaoh very angry.
Exodus 11:9	And the Lord saide vnto Moses, Pharaoh shall not heare you, that my wonders may bee multiplied in the land of Egypt.
Exodus 11:10	So Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh: but the Lord hardened Pharaohs heart, and he suffred not the children of Israel to goe out of his lande.
Exodus 12:1	Then the Lord spake to Moses and to Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,
Exodus 12:2	This moneth shalbe vnto you the beginning of moneths: it shalbe to you the first moneth of the yere.
Exodus 12:3	Speake ye vnto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth of this moneth let euery man take vnto him a lambe, according to the house of the fathers, a lambe for an house.
Exodus 12:4	And if the housholde be too litle for the lambe, he shall take his neighbour, which is next vnto his house, according to the nomber of the persons: euery one of you, according to his eating shall make your count for the lambes,
Exodus 12:5	Your lambe shalbe without blemish, a male of a yeere olde: ye shall take it of the lambes, or of the kiddes.
Exodus 12:6	And yee shall keepe it vntill the fourteenth day of this moneth: then al the multitude of the Congregation of Israel shall kill it at euen.
Exodus 12:7	After, they shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two postes, and on the vpper doore post of the houses where they shall eate it.
Exodus 12:8	And they shall eate the flesh the same night, roste with fire, and vnleauened bread: with sowre herbes they shall eate it.
Exodus 12:9	Eate not thereof rawe, boyled nor sodden in water, but rost with fire, both his head, his feete, and his purtenance.
Exodus 12:10	And ye shall reserue nothing of it vnto the morning: but that, which remaineth of it vnto the morowe, shall ye burne with fire.
Exodus 12:11	And thus shall yee eate it, Your loynes girded, your shoes on your feete, and your staues in your handes, and yee shall eate it in haste: for it is the Lords Passeouer.
Exodus 12:12	For I will passe through the lande of Egypt the same night, and will smite all the first borne in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, and I will execute iudgement vpon all the gods of Egypt. I am the Lord.
Exodus 12:13	And the blood shalbe a token for you vpon the houses where ye are: so when I see the blood, I will passe ouer you, and the plague shall not be vpon you to destruction, when I smite the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 12:14	And this day shalbe vnto you a remembrance: and ye shall keepe it an holie feast vnto the Lord, throughout your generations: yee shall keepe it holie by an ordinance for euer.
Exodus 12:15	Seuen daies shall ye eat vnleauened bread, and in any case ye shall put away leauen the first day out of your houses: for whosoeuer eateth leauened bread from the first daie vntill the seuenth day, that person shalbe cut off from Israel.
Exodus 12:16	And in the first day shalbe an holie assemblie: also in the seuenth day shalbe an holy assemblie vnto you: no worke shalbe done in them, saue about that which euery man must eate: that onely may ye do.
Exodus 12:17	Ye shall keepe also the feast of vnleauened bread: for that same daye I will bring your armies out of the lande of Egypt: therefore ye shall obserue this day, throughout your posteritie, by an ordinance for euer.
Exodus 12:18	In the first moneth and the fourteenth day of the moneth at euen, yee shall eate vnleauened bread vnto the one and twentieth day of the moneth at euen.
Exodus 12:19	Seuen daies shall no leauen be founde in your houses: for whosoeuer eateth leauened bread, that person shalbe cut off from the Congregation of Israel: whether he bee a stranger, or borne in the land.
Exodus 12:20	Ye shall eate no leauened bread: but in all your habitations shall ye eate vnleauened bread.
Exodus 12:21	Then Moses called all the Elders of Israel, and saide vnto them, Choose out and take you for euerie of your housholdes a lambe, and kill the Passeouer.
Exodus 12:22	And take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in the basen, and strike the lintell, and the doore cheekes with the blood that is in the basen, and let none of you goe out at the doore of his house, vntill the morning.
Exodus 12:23	For the Lord will passe by to smite the Egyptians: and when he seeth the blood vpon the lintel and on the two doore cheekes, the Lord wil passe ouer the doore, and wil not suffer the destroyer to come into your houses to plague you.
Exodus 12:24	Therefore shall ye obserue this thing as an ordinance both for thee and thy sonnes for euer.
Exodus 12:25	And when ye shall come into the land, which the Lord will giue you as hee hath promised, then ye shall keepe this seruice.
Exodus 12:26	And when your children aske you, What seruice is this ye keepe?
Exodus 12:27	Then ye shall saye, It is the sacrifice of the Lordes Passeouer, which passed ouer the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians, and preserued our houses. Then the people bowed them selues, and worshipped.
Exodus 12:28	So the children of Israel went, and did as the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron: so did they.
Exodus 12:29	Nowe at midnight, the Lord smote all the first borne in the lande of Egypt, from the first borne of Pharaoh that sate on his throne, vnto the first borne of the captiue that was in prison, and all the first borne of beastes.
Exodus 12:30	And Pharaoh rose vp in the night, he, and all his seruants and all the Egyptians: and there was a great crye in Egypt: for there was no house where there was not one dead.
Exodus 12:31	And hee called to Moses and to Aaron by night, and saide, Rise vp, get you out from among my people, both yee, and the children of Israel, and goe serue the Lord as ye haue sayde.
Exodus 12:32	Take also your sheepe and your cattell as yee haue sayde, and depart, and blesse me also.
Exodus 12:33	And the Egyptians did force the people, because they would send them out of the land in haste: for they said, We die all.
Exodus 12:34	Therfore the people tooke their dough before it was leauened, euen their dough bound in clothes vpon their shoulders.
Exodus 12:35	And the children of Israel did according to the saying of Moses, and they asked of ye Egyptians iewels of siluer and iewels of gold, and raiment.
Exodus 12:36	And the Lord gaue the people fauour in the sight of the Egyptians: and they graunted their request: so they spoyled the Egyptians.
Exodus 12:37	Then the children of Israel tooke their iourney from Rameses to Succoth about sixe hundreth thousand men of foote, beside children.
Exodus 12:38	And a great multitude of sundrie sortes of people went out with them, and sheepe, and beeues, and cattel in great abundance.
Exodus 12:39	And they baked the dough which they brought out of Egypt, and made vnleauened cakes: for it was not leauened, because they were thrust out of Egypt, neither coulde they tarie, nor yet prepare themselues vitailes.
Exodus 12:40	So the dwelling of the children of Israel, while they dwelled in Egypt, was foure hundreth and thirtie yeres.
Exodus 12:41	And when the foure hundreth and thirtie yeeres were expired, euen the selfe same day departed all the hostes of the Lord out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 12:42	It is a night to be kept holie to the Lord, because he brought them out of the lande of Egypt: this is that night of the Lord, which all the children of Israel must keepe throughout their generations.
Exodus 12:43	Also the Lord said vnto Moses and Aaron, This is the Lawe of the Passeouer: no stranger shall eate thereof.
Exodus 12:44	But euerie seruant that is bought for money, when thou hast circumcised him, then shall he eat thereof.
Exodus 12:45	A stranger or an hyred seruant shall not eat thereof.
Exodus 12:46	In one house shall it bee eaten: thou shalt carie none of ye flesh out of the house, neither shall ye breake a bone thereof.
Exodus 12:47	All the Congregation of Israel shall obserue it.
Exodus 12:48	But if a stranger dwell with thee, and will obserue the Passeouer of the Lord, let him circumcise all the males, that belong vnto him, and then let him come and obserue it, and he shall be as one that is borne in the land: for none vncircumcised person shall eate thereof.
Exodus 12:49	One lawe shalbe to him that is borne in the land, and to the stranger that dwelleth among you.
Exodus 12:50	Then all the children of Israel did as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron: so did they.
Exodus 12:51	And the selfe same day did the Lord bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.
Exodus 13:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 13:2	Sanctifie vnto me all the first borne: that is, euery one that first openeth the wombe among the children of Israel, as well of man as of beast: for it is mine.
Exodus 13:3	Then Moses sayd vnto the people, Remember this day in the which ye came out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage: for by a mightie hande the Lord brought you out from thence: therefore no leauened bread shall bee eaten.
Exodus 13:4	This day come yee out in the moneth of Abib.
Exodus 13:5	Now when the Lord hath brought thee into the land of the Canaanites, and Hittites, and Amorites, and Hiuites, and Iebusites (which he sware vnto thy fathers, that he woulde giue thee, a land flowing with milke and honie) then thou shalt keepe this seruice in this moneth.
Exodus 13:6	Seuen dayes shalt thou eate vnleauened bread, and the seuenth day shall be the feast of the Lord.
Exodus 13:7	Vnleauened bread shall bee eaten seuen dayes, and there shall no leauened bread be seene with thee, nor yet leauen be seene with thee in all thy quarters.
Exodus 13:8	And thou shalt shew thy sonne in that day, saying, This is done, because of that which the Lord did vnto me, when I came out of Egypt.
Exodus 13:9	And it shalbe a signe vnto thee vpon thine hande, and for a remembrance betweene thine eyes, that the Lawe of the Lord may be in thy mouth: for by a strong hand the Lord brought thee out of Egypt.
Exodus 13:10	Keepe therefore this ordinance in his season appoynted from yeere to yeere.
Exodus 13:11	And when the Lord shall bring thee into the lande of the Canaanites, as hee sware vnto thee and to thy fathers, and shall giue it thee,
Exodus 13:12	Then thou shalt set apart vnto the Lord all that first openeth the wombe: also euery thing that first doeth open the wombe, and commeth forth of thy beast: the males shalbe the Lordes.
Exodus 13:13	But euery first foale of an asse, thou shalt redeeme with a lambe: and if thou redeeme him not, then thou shalt breake his necke: likewise all the first borne of man among thy sonnes shalt thou bye out.
Exodus 13:14	And when thy sonne shall aske thee to morowe, saying, What is this? thou shalt then say vnto him, With a mightie hande the Lord brought vs out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
Exodus 13:15	For when Pharaoh was harde hearted against our departing, the Lord then slewe all the first borne in the lande of Egypt: from the first borne of man euen to the first borne of beast: therefore I sacrifice vnto the Lord all the males that first open the wombe, but all the first borne of my sonnes I redeeme.
Exodus 13:16	And it shalbe as a token vpon thine hand, and as frontlets betweene thine eyes, that the Lord brought vs out of Egypt by a mightie hande.
Exodus 13:17	Nowe when Pharaoh had let the people go, God caried them not by the way of the Philistims countrey, though it were neerer: (for God sayd, Lest the people repent whe they see warre, and turne againe to Egypt)
Exodus 13:18	But God made the people to go about by the way of the wildernesse of the red sea: and the children of Israel went vp armed out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 13:19	(And Moses tooke the bones of Ioseph with him: for he had made the children of Israel sweare, saying, God will surely visite you, and ye shall take my bones away hence with you)
Exodus 13:20	So they tooke their iourney from Succoth, and camped in Etham in the edge of the wildernesse.
Exodus 13:21	And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloude to leade them the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to giue them light, that they might go both by day and by night.
Exodus 13:22	He tooke not away the pillar of ye cloude by day, nor the pillar of fire by night from before the people.
Exodus 14:1	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 14:2	Speake to the children of Israel, that they returne and campe before Pi-hahiroth, betweene Migdol and the Sea, ouer against Baal-zephon: about it shall ye campe by the Sea.
Exodus 14:3	For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are tangled in the land: the wildernesse hath shut them in.
Exodus 14:4	And I will harden Pharaohs heart that hee shall follow after you: so I will get mee honour vpon Pharaoh, and vpon all his hoste: the Egyptians also shall knowe that I am the Lord: and they did so.
Exodus 14:5	Then it was told the King of Egypt, that the people fled: and the heart of Pharaoh and of his seruants was turned against the people, and they sayde, Why haue we this done, and haue let Israel go out of our seruice?
Exodus 14:6	And he made ready his charets, and tooke his people with him,
Exodus 14:7	And tooke sixe hundreth chosen charets, and all the charets of Egypt, and captaines ouer euery one of them.
Exodus 14:8	(For the Lord had hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he followed after the children of Israel: but the children of Israel went out with an hie hand)
Exodus 14:9	And the Egyptians pursued after them, and all the horses and charets of Pharaoh, and his horsemen and his hoste ouertooke them camping by the Sea, beside Pi-hahiroth, before Baal-zephon.
Exodus 14:10	And when Pharaoh drew nie, the children of Israel lift vp their eyes, and beholde, the Egyptians marched after them, and they were sore afrayde: wherefore the children of Israel cried vnto the Lord.
Exodus 14:11	And they sayde vnto Moses, Hast thou brought vs to die in the wildernes, because there were no graues in Egypt? wherefore hast thou serued vs thus, to carie vs out of Egypt?
Exodus 14:12	Did not wee tell thee this thing in Egypt, saying, Let vs be in rest, that we may serue the Egyptians? for it had bene better for vs to serue the Egyptians, then that wee shoulde dye in the wildernesse.
Exodus 14:13	Then Moses sayde to the people, Feare ye not, stand still, and beholde the saluation of the Lord which he will shew to you this day. For the Egyptians, whome ye haue seene this day, ye shall neuer see them againe.
Exodus 14:14	The Lord shall fight for you: therefore hold you your peace.
Exodus 14:15	And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Wherefore cryest thou vnto me? speake vnto the children of Israel that they go forward:
Exodus 14:16	And lift thou vp thy rod, and stretche out thine hand vpon the Sea and deuide it, and let the children of Israel goe on drie ground thorow the middes of the Sea.
Exodus 14:17	And I, beholde, I will harden the heart of the Egyptians, that they may follow them, and I wil get me honour vpon Pharaoh, and vpon all his host, vpon his charets, and vpon his horsemen.
Exodus 14:18	Then the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord, when I haue gotten me honour vpon Pharaoh, vpon his charets, and vpon his horsemen.
Exodus 14:19	(And the Angel of God, which went before the hoste of Israel, remoued and went behinde them: also the pillar of the cloude went from before them, and stoode behinde them,
Exodus 14:20	And came betweene the campe of the Egyptians and the campe of Israel: it was both a cloude and darkenes, yet gaue it light by night, so that all the night long the one came not at the other)
Exodus 14:21	And Moses stretched forth his hande vpon the Sea, and the Lord caused the sea to runne backe by a strong East winde all the night, and made the Sea dry land: for the waters were deuided.
Exodus 14:22	Then the children of Israel went through the middes of the Sea vpon the drie ground, and the waters were a wall vnto them on their right hand, and on their left hand.
Exodus 14:23	And the Egyptians pursued and went after them to the middes of the Sea, euen all Pharaohs horses, his charets, and his horsemen.
Exodus 14:24	Nowe in the morning watche, when the Lord looked vnto the hoste of the Egyptians, out of the firie and cloudie pillar, he strooke the host of the Egyptians with feare.
Exodus 14:25	For he tooke off their charet wheeles, and they draue them with much a doe: so that the Egyptians euery one sayd, I wil flee from the face of Israel: for the Lord fighteth for them against the Egyptians.
Exodus 14:26	Then the Lord sayde to Moses, Stretche thine hand vpon the Sea, that the waters may returne vpon the Egyptians, vpon their charets and vpon their horsemen.
Exodus 14:27	Then Moses stretched forth his hand vpon the Sea, and the Sea returned to his force early in the morning, and the Egyptians fled against it: but the Lord ouerthrew the Egyptians in the mids of the Sea.
Exodus 14:28	So the water returned and couered the charets and the horsemen, euen all the hoste of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them: there remained not one of them.
Exodus 14:29	But the children of Israel walked vpon dry land thorowe the middes of the Sea, and the waters were a wall vnto them on their right hande, and on their left.
Exodus 14:30	Thus the Lord saued Israel the same day out of the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel sawe the Egyptians dead vpon the Sea banke.
Exodus 14:31	And Israel saw the mightie power, which the Lord shewed vpon the Egyptians: so the people feared the Lord, and beleeued the Lord, and his seruant Moses.
Exodus 15:1	Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song vnto the Lord, and sayd in this maner, I will sing vnto the Lord: for he hath triumphed gloriously: the horse and him that rode vpon him hath he ouerthrowen in the Sea.
Exodus 15:2	The Lord is my strength and praise, and he is become my saluation. He is my God, and I will prepare him a tabernacle. he is my fathers God, and I will exalt him.
Exodus 15:3	The Lord is a man of warre, his Name is Iehouah.
Exodus 15:4	Pharaohs charets and his host hath he cast into the Sea: his chosen captaines also were drowned in the red Sea.
Exodus 15:5	The depths haue couered them, they sanke to the bottome as a stone.
Exodus 15:6	Thy right hande, O Lord, is glorious in power: thy right hand, O Lord, hath brused the enemie.
Exodus 15:7	And in thy great glorie thou hast ouerthrowen them that rose against thee: thou sentest forth thy wrath, which consumed them as the stubble.
Exodus 15:8	And by the blast of thy nostrels the waters were gathered, the floods stoode still as an heape, the depthes congealed together in the heart of the Sea.
Exodus 15:9	The enemie sayd, I wil pursue, I wil ouertake them, I will deuide the spoyle, my lust shall bee satisfied vpon them, I will drawe my sworde, mine hand shall destroy them.
Exodus 15:10	Thou blewest with thy winde, the Sea couered them, they sanke as leade in the mightie waters.
Exodus 15:11	Who is like vnto thee, O Lord, among the Gods! who is like thee so glorious in holinesse, fearefull in prayses, doing wonders!
Exodus 15:12	Thou stretchedst out thy right hande, the earth swallowed them.
Exodus 15:13	Thou wilt by thy mercie cary this people, which thou deliueredst: thou wilt bring them in thy strength vnto thine holy habitation.
Exodus 15:14	The people shall heare and be afraide: sorow shall come vpon the inhabitants of Palestina.
Exodus 15:15	Then the dukes of Edom shalbe amased, and trembling shall come vpon the great men of Moab: all the inhabitantes of Canaan shall waxe faint hearted.
Exodus 15:16	Feare and dread shall fall vpon them: because of the greatnesse of thine arme, they shalbe stil as a stone, till thy people passe, O Lord: til this people passe, which thou hast purchased.
Exodus 15:17	Thou shalt bring them in, and plant them in the mountaine of thine inheritance, which is the place that thou hast prepared, O Lord, for to dwell in, euen the sanctuarie, O Lord, which thine hands shall establish.
Exodus 15:18	The Lord shall reigne for euer and euer.
Exodus 15:19	For Pharaohs horses went with his charets and horsemen into the Sea, and the Lord brought the waters of the Sea vpon them: but the children of Israel went on drie land in the middes of the Sea.
Exodus 15:20	And Miriam the prophetesse, sister of Aaron tooke a timbrell in her hande, and all the women came out after her with timbrels and daunces.
Exodus 15:21	And Miriam answered the men, Sing yee vnto the Lord: for he hath triumphed gloriously: the horse and his rider hath hee ouerthrowen in the Sea.
Exodus 15:22	Then Moses brought Israel from the redde Sea, and they went out into the wildernesse of Shur: and they went three dayes in the wildernesse, and found no waters.
Exodus 15:23	And whe they came to Marah, they could not drinke of the waters of Marah, for they were bitter: therefore the name of the place was called Marah.
Exodus 15:24	Then the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we drinke?
Exodus 15:25	And he cried vnto the Lord, and the Lord shewed him a tree, which when he had cast into the waters, the waters were sweete: there he made them an ordinance and a law, and there he proued them,
Exodus 15:26	And sayd, if thou wilt diligently hearken, O Israel, vnto the voyce of the Lord thy God, and wilt do that, which is right in his sight, and wilt giue eare vnto his commandements, and keepe all his ordinances, then will I put none of these diseases vpon thee, which I brought vpon the Egyptians: for I am the Lord that healeth thee.
Exodus 15:27	And they came to Elim, where were twelue fountaines of water, and seuentie palme trees, and they camped thereby the waters.
Exodus 16:1	Afterward all the Congregation of the children of Israel departed from Elim, and came to the wildernes of Sin, (which is betweene Elim and Sinai) the fiftenth day of the second moneth after their departing out of ye land of Egypt.
Exodus 16:2	And the whole Congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron in the wildernesse.
Exodus 16:3	For the children of Israel sayde to them, Oh that we had dyed by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, when wee sate by the flesh pots, when wee ate bread our bellies full: for yee haue brought vs out into this wildernesse, to kill this whole company with famine.
Exodus 16:4	Then sayd the Lord vnto Moses, Behold, I wil cause bread to rayne from heauen to you, and the people shall goe out, and gather that that is sufficient for euery day, that I may proue them, whether they wil walke in my Law or no.
Exodus 16:5	But the sixt daye they shall prepare that, which they shall bring home, and it shalbe twise as much as they gather dayly.
Exodus 16:6	Then Moses and Aaron sayde vnto all the children of Israel, At euen ye shall know, that the Lord brought you out of the land of Egypt:
Exodus 16:7	And in the morning ye shall see the glorie of the Lord: for he hath heard your grudgings against the Lord: and what are we that ye haue murmured against vs?
Exodus 16:8	Againe Moses sayd, At euen shall the Lord giue you flesh to eate, and in the morning your fil of bread: for the Lord hath heard your murmurings, which ye murmure against him: for what are we? your murmurings are not against vs, but against the Lord.
Exodus 16:9	And Moses sayd to Aaron, Say vnto all the Congregation of the children of Israel, Draw neere before the Lord: for he hath heard your murmurings.
Exodus 16:10	Now as Aaron spake vnto the whole Congregation of the children of Israel, they looked toward the wildernesse, and beholde, the glory of the Lord appeared in a cloude.
Exodus 16:11	(For the Lord had spoken vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 16:12	I haue heard the murmurings of the children of Israel: tell them therefore, and say, At euen ye shall eate flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread, and ye shall knowe that I am the Lord your God)
Exodus 16:13	And so at euen the quailes came and couered the campe: and in the morning the dewe lay round about the hoste.
Exodus 16:14	And when the dewe that was fallen was ascended, beholde, a small round thing was vpon the face of the wildernes, small as the hoare frost on the earth.
Exodus 16:15	And when the children of Israel sawe it, they sayde one to another, It is MAN, for they wist not what it was. And Moses sayd vnto them, This is the breade which the Lord hath giuen you to eate.
Exodus 16:16	This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded: gather of it euery man according to his eating an Omer for a man according to the number of your persons: euery man shall take for them which are in his tent.
Exodus 16:17	And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some lesse.
Exodus 16:18	And when they did measure it with an Omer, hee that had gathered much, had nothing ouer, and he that had gathered litle, had no lacke: so euery man gathered according to his eating.
Exodus 16:19	Moses then said vnto them, Let no man reserue thereof till morning.
Exodus 16:20	Notwithstanding they obeyed not Moses: but some of them reserued of it till morning, and it was full of wormes, and stanke: therefore Moses was angrie with them.
Exodus 16:21	And they gathered it euery morning, euery man according to his eating: for when the heate of the sunne came, it was melted.
Exodus 16:22	And the sixt day they gathered twise so much bread, two Omers for one man: then all the rulers of the Congregation came and told Moses.
Exodus 16:23	And he answered them, This is that, which the Lord hath sayde, To morowe is the rest of the holy Sabbath vnto the Lord: bake that to day which ye wil bake, and seethe that which ye wil seethe, and all that remaineth, lay it vp to be kept till the morning for you.
Exodus 16:24	And they laied it vp till the morning, as Moses bade, and it stanke not, neyther was there any worme therein.
Exodus 16:25	Then Moses sayde, Eate that to day: for to day is the Sabbath vnto the Lord: to day ye shall not finde it in the fielde.
Exodus 16:26	Sixe dayes shall yee gather it, but in the seuenth day is the Sabbath: in it there shalbe none.
Exodus 16:27	Notwithstanding, there went out some of the people in ye seuenth day for to gather, and they found none.
Exodus 16:28	And the Lord sayde vnto Moses, Howe long refuse yee to keepe my commandements, and my lawes?
Exodus 16:29	Beholde, howe the Lord hath giuen you the Sabbath: therefore he giueth you the sixt day bread for two dayes: tary therefore euery man in his place: let no man goe out of his place the seuenth day.
Exodus 16:30	So the people rested the seuenth day.
Exodus 16:31	And the house of Israel called the name of it, MAN. and it was like to coriander seede, but white: and the taste of it was like vnto wafers made with hony.
Exodus 16:32	And Moses said, This is that which the Lord hath commanded, Fill an Omer of it, to keepe it for your posteritie: that they may see the bread wherewith I haue fed you in wildernesse, when I brought you out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 16:33	Moses also said to Aaron, Take a pot and put an Omer full of MAN therein, and set it before the Lord to be kept for your posteritie.
Exodus 16:34	As the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron laied it vp before the Testimonie to be kept.
Exodus 16:35	And the children of Israel did eate MAN fourtie yeres, vntill they came vnto a land inhabited: they did eate MAN vntill they came to the borders of the land of Canaan.
Exodus 16:36	The Omer is the tenth part of the Ephah.
Exodus 17:1	And all the Congregation of the children of Israel departed from the wildernesse of Sin, by their iourneyes at the commandement of the Lord, and camped in Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drinke.
Exodus 17:2	Wherefore the people contended with Moses, and sayde, Giue vs water that we may drinke. And Moses sayde vnto them, Why contende yee with me? wherefore do ye tempt the Lord?
Exodus 17:3	So the people thirsted there for water, and the people murmured against Moses, and said, Wherefore hast thou thus brought vs out of Egypt to kill vs and our children and our cattel with thirst?
Exodus 17:4	And Moses cried to the Lord, saying, What shall I do to this people? for they be almost ready to stone me.
Exodus 17:5	And ye Lord answered to Moses, Goe before the people, and take with thee of the Elders of Israel: and thy rod, wherewith thou smotest the riuer, take in thine hand, and go:
Exodus 17:6	Behold, I will stand there before thee vpon the rocke in Horeb, and thou shalt smite on the rocke, and water shall come out of it, that the people may drinke. And Moses did so in the sight of the Elders of Israel.
Exodus 17:7	And he called the name of the place, Massah and Meribah, because of the contention of the children of Israel, and because they had tempted the Lord, saying, Is the Lord among vs, or no?
Exodus 17:8	Then came Amalek and fought with Israel in Rephidim.
Exodus 17:9	And Moses sayde to Ioshua, Chuse vs out men, and go fight with Amalek: to morowe I will stande on the toppe of the hill with the rod of God in mine hand.
Exodus 17:10	So Ioshua did as Moses bad him, and fought with Amalek: and Moses, Aaron, and Hur, went vp to the top of the hill.
Exodus 17:11	And when Moses helde vp his hande, Israel preuailed: but when he let his hande downe, Amalek preuailed.
Exodus 17:12	Nowe Moses handes were heauy: therefore they tooke a stone and put it vnder him, and hee sate vpon it: and Aaron and Hur stayed vp his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side: so his hands were steady vntill the going downe of the sunne.
Exodus 17:13	And Ioshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword.
Exodus 17:14	And the Lord sayde to Moses, Write this for a remembrance in the booke, and rehearse it to Ioshua: for I will vtterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from vnder heauen.
Exodus 17:15	(And Moses builte an altar and called the name of it, Iehouah-nissi)
Exodus 17:16	Also he said, The Lord hath sworne, that he will haue warre with Amalek from generation to generation.
Exodus 18:1	When Iethro the Priest of Midian Moses father in lawe heard all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, and howe the Lord had brought Israel out of Egypt,
Exodus 18:2	Then Iethro the father in lawe of Moses, tooke Zipporah Moses wife, (after he had sent her away)
Exodus 18:3	And her two sonnes, (whereof the one was called Gershom: for he sayd, I haue bene an aliant in a strange land:
Exodus 18:4	And the name of the other was Eliezer: for the God of my father, said he, was mine helpe, and deliuered me from the sword of Pharaoh)
Exodus 18:5	And Iethro Moses father in law came with his two sonnes, and his wife vnto Moses into the wildernes, where he camped by ye mout of God.
Exodus 18:6	And he said to Moses, I thy father in law Iethro am come to thee, and thy wife and her two sonnes with her.
Exodus 18:7	And Moses went out to meete his father in law, and did obeisance and kissed him, and eche asked other of his welfare: and they came into the tent.
Exodus 18:8	Then Moses told his father in law all that the Lord had done vnto Pharaoh, and to the Egyptians for Israels sake, and all the trauaile that had come vnto them by the way, and howe the Lord deliuered them.
Exodus 18:9	And Iethro reioyced at all the goodnesse, which the Lord had shewed to Israel, and because he had deliuered them out of the hande of the Egyptians.
Exodus 18:10	Therfore Iethro sayd, Blessed be the Lord who hath deliuered you out of the hande of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh: who hath also deliuered the people from vnder the hand of the Egyptians.
Exodus 18:11	Now I know that the Lord is greater then all the gods: for as they haue dealt proudly with them, so are they recompensed.
Exodus 18:12	Then Iethro Moses father in lawe tooke burnt offerings and sacrifices to offer vnto God. And Aaron and all the Elders of Israel came to eat bread with Moses father in law before God.
Exodus 18:13	Now on the morow, when Moses sate to iudge the people, the people stoode about Moses from morning vnto euen.
Exodus 18:14	And when Moses father in law saw all that he did to the people, he sayde, What is this that thou doest to the people? why sittest thou thy selfe alone, and all the people stande about thee from morning vnto euen?
Exodus 18:15	And Moses sayd vnto his father in law, Because the people come vnto me to seeke God.
Exodus 18:16	When they haue a matter, they come vnto me, and I iudge betweene one and another, and declare the ordinances of God, and his lawes.
Exodus 18:17	But Moses father in law said vnto him, The thing which thou doest, is not well.
Exodus 18:18	Thou both weariest thy selfe greatly, and this people that is with thee: for the thing is too heauie for thee: thou art not able to doe it thy selfe alone.
Exodus 18:19	Heare nowe my voyce, (I will giue thee counsell, and God shalbe with thee) be thou for the people to Godwarde, and report thou the causes vnto God,
Exodus 18:20	And admonish them of the ordinances, and of the lawes, and shew them the way, wherein they must walke, and the worke that they must do.
Exodus 18:21	Moreouer, prouide thou among al the people men of courage, fearing God, men dealing truely, hating couetousnesse: and appoynt such ouer them to be rulers ouer thousandes, rulers ouer hundreths, rulers ouer fifties, and rulers ouer tennes.
Exodus 18:22	And let them iudge the people at all seasons: but euery great matter let them bring vnto thee, and let them iudge all small causes: so shall it be easier for thee, when they shall beare the burden with thee.
Exodus 18:23	If thou do this thing, (and God so command thee) both thou shalt be able to endure, and all this people shall also go quietly to their place.
Exodus 18:24	So Moses obeyed the voyce of his father in law, and did all that he had sayd:
Exodus 18:25	And Moses chose men of courage out of all Israel, and made them heads ouer the people, rulers ouer thousandes, rulers ouer hundreths, rulers ouer fifties, and rulers ouer tennes.
Exodus 18:26	And they iudged the people at all seasons, but they brought the hard causes vnto Moses: for they iudged all small matters themselues.
Exodus 18:27	Afterward Moses let his father in law depart, and he went into his countrey.
Exodus 19:1	In the third moneth, after the children of Israel were gone out of the lande of Egypt, the same day came they into the wildernes of Sinai.
Exodus 19:2	For they departed from Rephidim, and came to the desart of Sinai, and camped in the wildernesse: euen there Israel camped before the mount.
Exodus 19:3	But Moses went vp vnto God, for ye Lord had called out of the mount vnto him, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Iaakob, and tell the children of Israel,
Exodus 19:4	Ye haue seene what I did vnto the Egyptians, and how I caryed you vpon eagles wings, and haue brought you vnto me.
Exodus 19:5	Now therefore if ye wil heare my voyce in deede, and keepe my couenant, then ye shalbe my chiefe treasure aboue all people, though all the earth be mine.
Exodus 19:6	Yee shall be vnto mee also a kingdome of Priestes, and an holy nation. These are the words which thou shalt speake vnto the children of Israel.
Exodus 19:7	Moses then came and called for the Elders of the people, and proposed vnto them all these things, which the Lord commanded him.
Exodus 19:8	And the people answered all together, and sayd, All that the Lord hath commanded, we will doe. And Moses reported the wordes of the people vnto the Lord.
Exodus 19:9	And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Lo, I come vnto thee in a thicke cloude, that the people may heare, whiles I talke with thee, and that they may also beleeue thee for euer. (for Moses had tolde the wordes of the people vnto the Lord)
Exodus 19:10	Moreouer, the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Goe to the people, and sanctifie them to day and to morow, and let them wash their clothes.
Exodus 19:11	And let them be ready on the third day: for the thirde day the Lord will come downe in the sight of all the people vpon mount Sinai:
Exodus 19:12	And thou shalt set markes vnto the people rounde about, saying, Take heede to your selues that ye goe not vp the mount, nor touche the border of it: whosoeuer toucheth the mount, shall surely die.
Exodus 19:13	No hand shall touche it, but he shalbe stoned to death, or striken through with darts: whether it be beast or man, he shall not liue: when the horne bloweth long, they shall come vp into the mountaine.
Exodus 19:14	Then Moses went downe from ye mount vnto the people, and sanctified the people, and they washed their clothes.
Exodus 19:15	And he said vnto the people, Be ready on the third day, and come not at your wiues.
Exodus 19:16	And the thirde day, when it was morning, there was thunders and lightnings, and a thicke cloude vpon the mount, and the sounde of the trumpet exceeding loude, so that all the people, that was in the campe, was afrayde.
Exodus 19:17	Then Moses brought the people out of the tents to meete with God, and they stoode in the nether part of the mount.
Exodus 19:18	And mount Sinai was all on smoke, because the Lord came downe vpon it in fire, and the smoke therof ascended, as the smoke of a fornace, and all the mount trembled exceedingly.
Exodus 19:19	And when the sound of the trumpet blew long, and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by voyce.
Exodus 19:20	(For the Lord came downe vpon mount Sinai on the toppe of the mount) and when the Lord called Moses vp into the top of the mount, Moses went vp.
Exodus 19:21	Then the Lord said vnto Moses, Go down, charge the people, that they breake not their boundes, to go vp to the Lord to gaze, least many of them perish.
Exodus 19:22	And let the Priestes also which come to the Lord be sanctified, least the Lord destroy them.
Exodus 19:23	And Moses sayde vnto the Lord, The people can not come vp into the mount Sinai: for thou hast charged vs, saying, Set markes on the mountaine, and sanctifie it.
Exodus 19:24	And the Lord sayd vnto him, Go, get thee downe, and come vp, thou, and Aaron with thee: but let not the Priestes and the people breake their boundes to come vp vnto the Lord, least he destroy them.
Exodus 19:25	So Moses went downe vnto the people, and tolde them.
Exodus 20:1	Then God spake all these wordes, saying,
Exodus 20:2	I am the Lord thy God, which haue brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.
Exodus 20:3	Thou shalt haue none other Gods before me.
Exodus 20:4	Thou shalt make thee no grauen image, neither any similitude of things that are in heauen aboue, neither that are in the earth beneath, nor that are in the waters vnder the earth.
Exodus 20:5	Thou shalt not bowe downe to them, neither serue them: for I am the Lord thy God, a ielous God, visiting the iniquitie of the fathers vpon the children, vpon the third generation and vpon the fourth of them that hate me:
Exodus 20:6	And shewing mercie vnto thousandes to them that loue me, and keepe my commandemets.
Exodus 20:7	Thou shalt not take the Name of the Lord thy God in vaine: for the Lord will not hold him guiltles that taketh his Name in vayne.
Exodus 20:8	Remember the Sabbath day, to keepe it holy.
Exodus 20:9	Sixe dayes shalt thou labour, and doe all thy worke,
Exodus 20:10	But the seuenth day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any worke, thou, nor thy sonne, nor thy daughter, thy man seruant, nor thy mayde, nor thy beast, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates.
Exodus 20:11	For in sixe dayes the Lord made the heauen and the earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seuenth day: therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it.
Exodus 20:12	Honour thy father and thy mother, that thy dayes may be prolonged vpon the land, which the Lord thy God giueth thee.
Exodus 20:13	Thou shalt not kill.
Exodus 20:14	Thou shalt not commit adulterie.
Exodus 20:15	Thou shalt not steale.
Exodus 20:16	Thou shalt not beare false witnes against thy neighbour.
Exodus 20:17	Thou shalt not couet thy neighbours house, neither shalt thou couet thy neighbours wife, nor his man seruant, nor his mayde, nor his oxe, nor his asse, neyther any thing that is thy neighbours.
Exodus 20:18	And all the people sawe the thunders, and the lightnings, and the sound of the trumpet, and the mountaine smoking and when the people saw it they fled and stoode afare off,
Exodus 20:19	And sayde vnto Moses, Talke thou with vs, and we will heare: but let not God talke with vs, lest we die.
Exodus 20:20	Then Moses sayde vnto the people, Feare not: for God is come to proue you, and that his feare may be before you, that ye sinne not.
Exodus 20:21	So the people stoode afarre off, but Moses drew neere vnto the darkenes where God was.
Exodus 20:22	And the Lord sayde vnto Moses, Thus thou shalt say vnto the children of Israel, Ye haue seene that I haue talked with you from heauen.
Exodus 20:23	Ye shall not make therefore with me gods of siluer, nor gods of golde: you shall make you none.
Exodus 20:24	An altar of earth thou shalt make vnto me, and thereon shalt offer thy burnt offerings, and thy peace offerings, thy sheepe, and thine oxen: in all places, where I shall put the remembrance of my Name, I will come vnto thee, and blesse thee.
Exodus 20:25	But if thou wilt make mee an altar of stone, thou shalt not buylde it of hewen stones: for if thou lift vp thy toole vpon them, thou hast polluted them.
Exodus 20:26	Neither shalt thou goe vp by steppes vnto mine altar, that thy filthines be not discouered thereon.
Exodus 21:1	Now these are the lawes, which thou shalt set before them:
Exodus 21:2	If thou bye an Ebrewe seruant, he shall serue sixe yeres, and in the seuenth he shall go out free, for nothing.
Exodus 21:3	If he came himselfe alone, he shall goe out himselfe alone: if hee were married, then his wife shall go out with him.
Exodus 21:4	If his master haue giuen him a wife, and she hath borne him sonnes or daughters, he wife and her children shalbe her masters, but he shall goe out himselfe alone.
Exodus 21:5	But if the seruant saye thus, I loue my master, my wife and my children, I will not goe out free,
Exodus 21:6	Then his master shall bring him vnto the Iudges, and set him to the dore, or to the poste, and his master shall bore his eare through with a nawle, and he shall serue him for euer.
Exodus 21:7	Likewise if a man sell his daughter to be a seruant, she shall not goe out as the men seruantes doe.
Exodus 21:8	If shee please not her master, who hath betrothed her to him selfe, then shall hee cause to buy her: hee shall haue no power to sell her to a strange people, seeing he despised her.
Exodus 21:9	But if he hath betrothed her vnto his sonne, he shall deale with her according to the custome of the daughters.
Exodus 21:10	If he take him another wife, he shall not diminish her foode, her rayment, and recompence of her virginitie.
Exodus 21:11	And if he do not these three vnto her, the shall she go out free, paying no money.
Exodus 21:12	He that smiteth a man, and he die, shall dye the death.
Exodus 21:13	And if a man hath not layed wayte, but God hath offered him into his hande, then I wil appoynt thee a place whither he shall flee.
Exodus 21:14	But if a man come presumptuously vpon his neighbour to slay him with guile, thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die.
Exodus 21:15	Also hee that smiteth his father or his mother, shall die the death.
Exodus 21:16	And he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, if it be founde with him, shall die the death.
Exodus 21:17	And hee that curseth his father or his mother, shall die the death.
Exodus 21:18	When men also striue together, and one smite another with a stone, or with the fist, and he die not, but lieth in bed,
Exodus 21:19	If hee rise againe and walke without vpon his staffe, then shall he that smote him go quite, saue onely hee shall beare his charges for his resting, and shall pay for his healing.
Exodus 21:20	And if a man smite his seruant, or his maide with a rod, and he die vnder his hande, he shalbe surely punished.
Exodus 21:21	But if he continue a day, or two dayes, hee shall not be punished: for he is his money.
Exodus 21:22	Also if men striue and hurt a woman with childe, so that her childe depart from her, and death follow not, hee shall bee surely punished according as the womans husband shall appoynt him, or he shall pay as the Iudges determine.
Exodus 21:23	But if death follow, then thou shalt paye life for life,
Exodus 21:24	Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hande for hand, foote for foote,
Exodus 21:25	Burning for burning, wound for wounde, stripe for stripe.
Exodus 21:26	And if a man smite his seruant in the eie, or his maide in the eye, and hath perished it, hee shall let him goe free for his eye.
Exodus 21:27	Also if he smite out his seruants tooth, or his maides tooth, he shall let him goe out free for his tooth.
Exodus 21:28	If an oxe gore a man or a woman, that he die, the oxe shalbe stoned to death, and his flesh shall not be eaten, but the owner of the oxe shall goe quite.
Exodus 21:29	If the oxe were wont to push in times past, and it hath bene tolde his master, and hee hath not kept him, and after he killeth a man or a woman, the oxe shall be stoned, and his owner shall die also.
Exodus 21:30	If there be set to him a summe of mony, then he shall pay the raunsome of his life, whatsoeuer shalbe laied vpon him.
Exodus 21:31	Whether he hath gored a sonne or gored a daughter, he shalbe iudged after the same maner.
Exodus 21:32	If the oxe gore a seruant or a mayde, hee shall giue vnto their master thirtie shekels of siluer, and the oxe shalbe stoned.
Exodus 21:33	And when a man shall open a well, or when he shall dig a pit and couer it not, and an oxe or an asse fall therein,
Exodus 21:34	The owner of the pit shall make it good, and giue money to the owners thereof, but the dead beast shalbe his.
Exodus 21:35	And if a mans oxe hurt his neighbours oxe that he die, then they shall sel the liue oxe, and deuide the money thereof, and the dead oxe also they shall deuide.
Exodus 21:36	Or if it bee knowen that the oxe hath vsed to push in times past, and his master hath not kept him, he shall pay oxe for oxe, but the dead shall be his owne.
Exodus 22:1	If a man steale an oxe or a sheepe, and kill it or sell it, he shall restore fiue oxen for the oxe, and foure sheepe for the sheepe.
Exodus 22:2	If a thiefe bee founde breaking vp, and be smitten that he dye, no blood shall be shed for him.
Exodus 22:3	But if it be in the day light, blood shall be shed for him: for he should make full restitution: if he had not wherewith, then shoulde he bee solde for his theft.
Exodus 22:4	If the theft bee founde with him, aliue, (whether it be oxe, asse, or sheepe) he shall restore the double.
Exodus 22:5	If a man doe hurt fielde, or vineyarde, and put in his beast to feed in an other mans fielde, he shall recompence of the best of his owne fielde, and of the best of his owne vineyard.
Exodus 22:6	If fire breake out, and catche in ye thornes, and the stackes of corne, or the standing corne, or the fielde be consumed, he that kindled the fire shall make full restitution.
Exodus 22:7	If a man deliuer his neighbour money or stuffe to keepe, and it be stollen out of his house, if the thiefe be found, he shall pay the double.
Exodus 22:8	If the thiefe be not founde, then the master of the house shalbe brought vnto the Iudges to sweare, whether he hath put his hande vnto his neighbours good, or no.
Exodus 22:9	In all maner of trespasse, whether it bee for oxen, for asse, for sheepe, for raiment, or for any maner of lost thing, which an other chalengeth to be his, the cause of both parties shall come before the iudges, and whom the Iudges condemne, he shall pay the double vnto his neighbour.
Exodus 22:10	If a man deliuer vnto his neighbour to keepe asse, or oxe, or sheepe, or any beast, and it die, or be hurt, or taken away by enemies, and no man see it,
Exodus 22:11	An othe of the Lord shalbe betweene the twaine, that hee hath not put his hande vnto his neighbours good, and the owner of it shall take the othe, and he shall not make it good:
Exodus 22:12	But if it be stollen from him, he shall make restitution vnto the owner thereof.
Exodus 22:13	If it be torne in pieces, he shall bring recorde, and shall not make that good, which is deuoured.
Exodus 22:14	And if a man borow ought of his neighbour, and it be hurt, or els die, the owner thereof not being by, he shall surely make it good.
Exodus 22:15	If the owner thereof bee by, hee shall not make it good: for if it be an hired thing, it came for his hire.
Exodus 22:16	And if a man entise a maide that is not betrothed, and lie with her, hee shall endowe her, and take her to his wife.
Exodus 22:17	If her father refuse to giue her to him, hee shall pay money, according to ye dowry of virgins.
Exodus 22:18	Thou shalt not suffer a witch to liue.
Exodus 22:19	Whosoeuer lieth with a beast, shall dye the death.
Exodus 22:20	Hee that offereth vnto any gods, saue vnto the Lord onely, shalbe slaine.
Exodus 22:21	Moreouer, thou shalt not do iniurie to a stranger, neither oppresse him: for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.
Exodus 22:22	Ye shall not trouble any widowe, nor fatherlesse childe.
Exodus 22:23	If thou vexe or trouble such, and so he call and cry vnto me, I will surely heare his cry.
Exodus 22:24	Then shall my wrath be kindled, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wiues shall be widowes, and your children fatherlesse.
Exodus 22:25	If thou lende money to my people, that is, to the poore with thee, thou shalt not bee as an vsurer vnto him: yee shall not oppresse him with vsurie.
Exodus 22:26	If thou take thy neighbours rayment to pledge, thou shalt restore it vnto him before the sunne go downe:
Exodus 22:27	For that is his couering only, and this is his garment for his skin: wherin shall he sleepe? therefore when he crieth vnto mee, I will heare him: for I am mercifull.
Exodus 22:28	Thou shalt not raile vpon the Iudges, neither speake euil of the ruler of thy people.
Exodus 22:29	Thine abundance and thy licour shalt thou not keepe backe. The first borne of thy sonnes shalt thou giue me.
Exodus 22:30	Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen and with thy sheepe: seuen dayes it shall bee with his damme, and the eight day thou shalt giue it me.
Exodus 22:31	Ye shall be an holy people vnto me, neither shall ye eate any flesh that is torne of beastes in the fielde: ye shall cast it to the dogge.
Exodus 23:1	Thou shalt not receiue a false tale, neyther shalt thou put thine hande with the wicked, to be a false witnes.
Exodus 23:2	Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do euil, neither agree in a controuersie to decline after many and ouerthrowe the trueth.
Exodus 23:3	Thou shalt not esteeme a poore man in his cause.
Exodus 23:4	If thou meete thine enemies oxe, or his asse going astray, thou shalt bring him to him againe.
Exodus 23:5	If thou see thine enemies asse lying vnder his burden, wilt thou cease to helpe him? thou shalt helpe him vp againe with it.
Exodus 23:6	Thou shalt not ouerthrowe the right of thy poore in his sute.
Exodus 23:7	Thou shalt keepe thee farre from a false matter, and shalt not slaye the innocent and the righteous: for I will not iustifie a wicked man.
Exodus 23:8	Thou shalt take no gift: for the gift blindeth the wise, and peruerteth the wordes of the righteous.
Exodus 23:9	Thou shalt not oppresse a stranger: for ye knowe the heart of a stranger, seeing yee were strangers in the land of Egypt.
Exodus 23:10	Moreouer, sixe yeres thou shalt sowe thy land, and gather the fruites thereof,
Exodus 23:11	But the seuenth yeere thou shalt let it rest and lie still, that the poore of thy people may eat, and what they leaue, the beastes of the fielde shall eate. In like maner thou shalt doe with thy vineyard, and with thine oliue trees.
Exodus 23:12	Sixe dayes thou shalt do thy worke, and in the seuenth day thou shalt rest, that thine oxe, and thine asse may rest, and the sonne of thy maide and the stranger may be refreshed.
Exodus 23:13	And ye shall take heede to all things that I haue sayde vnto you: and ye shall make no mention of the name of other gods, neither shall it be heard out of thy mouth.
Exodus 23:14	Three times thou shalt keepe a feast vnto me in the yeere.
Exodus 23:15	Thou shalt keepe the feast of vnleauened bread: thou shalt eate vnleauened bread seue dayes, as I commanded thee, in the season of the moneth of Abib: for in it thou camest out of Egypt: and none shall appeare before me emptie:
Exodus 23:16	The feast also of the haruest of the first fruites of thy labours, which thou hast sowen in the fielde: and the feast of gathering fruites in the ende of the yere, when thou hast gathered in thy labours out of the fielde.
Exodus 23:17	These three times in the yeere shall all thy men children appeare before the Lord Iehouah.
Exodus 23:18	Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leauened bread: neyther shall the fatte of my sacrifice remayne vntill the morning.
Exodus 23:19	The first of the first fruites of thy lande thou shalt bring into the house of the Lord thy God: yet shalt thou not seeth a kid in his mothers milke.
Exodus 23:20	Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keepe thee in the way, and to bring thee to the place which I haue prepared.
Exodus 23:21	Beware of him, and heare his voyce, and prouoke him not: for he will not spare your misdeedes, because my name is in him.
Exodus 23:22	But if thou hearken vnto his voyce, and do all that I speake, the I wil be an enemie vnto thine enemies, and will afflict them that afflict thee.
Exodus 23:23	For mine Angel shall go before thee, and bring thee vnto the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, the Hiuites, and the Iebusites, and I will destroy them.
Exodus 23:24	Thou shalt not bow downe to their gods, neither serue them, nor doe after the workes of them: but vtterly ouerthrowe them, and breake in pieces their images.
Exodus 23:25	For ye shall serue the Lord your God, and he shall blesse thy bread and thy water, and I will take all sickenes away from the middes of thee.
Exodus 23:26	There shall none cast their fruite nor be baren in thy lande: the number of thy dayes will I fulfill.
Exodus 23:27	I will send my feare before thee, and will destroy all the people among whome thou shalt go: and I will make all thine enemies turne their backes vnto thee:
Exodus 23:28	And I will sende hornets before thee, which shall driue out the Hiuites, the Canaanites, and the Hittites from thy face.
Exodus 23:29	I will not cast them out from thy face in one yeere, least the land grow to a wildernes: and the beasts of the field multiplie against thee.
Exodus 23:30	By litle and litle I will driue them out from thy face, vntill thou increase, and inherite the lande.
Exodus 23:31	And I will make thy coastes from the red sea vnto the sea of the Philistims, and from the desert vnto the Riuer: for I will deliuer the inhabitants of the lande into your hande, and thou shalt driue them out from thy face.
Exodus 23:32	Thou shalt make no couenant with them, nor with their gods:
Exodus 23:33	Neither shall they dwell in thy lande, least they make thee sinne against me: for if thou serue their gods, surely it shall be thy destruction.
Exodus 24:1	Now hee had said vnto Moses, Come vp to the Lord, thou, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seuentie of the Elders of Israel, and yee shall worship a farre off.
Exodus 24:2	And Moses himselfe alone shall come neere to the Lord, but they shall not come neere, neither shall the people goe vp with him.
Exodus 24:3	Afterwarde Moses came and told the people all the wordes of the Lord, and all the lawes: and all the people answered with one voyce, and said, All the things which the Lord hath said, will we doe.
Exodus 24:4	And Moses wrote all the wordes of the Lord, and rose vp early, and set vp an altar vnder the mountaine, and twelue pillars according to the twelue tribes of Israel.
Exodus 24:5	And he sent young men of the children of Israel, which offered burnt offrings of bieues, and sacrificed peace offrings vnto the Lord.
Exodus 24:6	Then Moses tooke halfe of the blood, and put it in basens, and halfe of the blood he sprinckled on the altar.
Exodus 24:7	After he tooke the booke of the couenant, and read it in the audience of the people: who said, All that the Lord hath said, we will do, and be obedient.
Exodus 24:8	Then Moses tooke the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said, Behold, the blood of the couenant, which the Lord hath made with you concerning all these things.
Exodus 24:9	Then went vp Moses and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seuentie of the Elders of Israel.
Exodus 24:10	And they saw the God of Israel, and vnder his feete was as it were a worke of a Saphir stone, and as the very heauen when it is cleare.
Exodus 24:11	And vpon the nobles of the children of Israel he laide not his hande: also they sawe God, and did eate and drinke.
Exodus 24:12	And the Lord said vnto Moses, Come vp to me into the mountaine, and be there, and I will giue thee tables of stone, and the law and the commandement, which I haue written, for to teach them.
Exodus 24:13	Then Moses rose vp, and his minister Ioshua, and Moses went vp into the mountaine of God,
Exodus 24:14	And said vnto the Elders, Tary vs here, vntill we come againe vnto you: and beholde, Aaron, and Hur are with you: whosoeuer hath any matters, let him come to them.
Exodus 24:15	Then Moses went vp to the mount, and the cloude couered the mountaine,
Exodus 24:16	And the glorie of the Lord abode vpon mount Sinai, and the cloude couered it sixe dayes: and the seuenth day he called vnto Moses out of the middes of the cloude.
Exodus 24:17	And the sight of the glorie of the Lord was like consuming fire on the top of the moutaine, in the eyes of the children of Israel.
Exodus 24:18	And Moses entred into the middes of the cloude, and went vp to the mountaine: and Moses was in the mount fourtie dayes and fourty nightes.
Exodus 25:1	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 25:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, that they receiue an offring for me: of euery man, whose heart giueth it freely, ye shall take the offring for me.
Exodus 25:3	And this is the offring which ye shall take of them, golde, and siluer, and brasse,
Exodus 25:4	And blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linnen, and goates heare,
Exodus 25:5	And rammes skinnes coloured red, and the skinnes of badgers, and the wood Shittim,
Exodus 25:6	Oyle for the light, spices for anoynting oyle, and for the perfume of sweete sauour,
Exodus 25:7	Onix stones, and stones to be set in the Ephod, and in the brest plate.
Exodus 25:8	Also they shall make me a Sanctuarie, that I may dwell among them.
Exodus 25:9	According to all that I shewe thee, euen so shall ye make the forme of the Tabernacle, and the facion of all the instruments thereof.
Exodus 25:10	They shall make also an Arke of Shittim wood, two cubites and an halfe long, and a cubite and an halfe broade, and a cubite and an halfe hie.
Exodus 25:11	And thou shalt ouerlay it with pure golde: within and without shalt thou ouerlay it, and shalt make vpon it a crowne of golde rounde about.
Exodus 25:12	And thou shalt cast foure rings of golde for it, and put them in the foure corners thereof: that is, two rings shalbe on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side thereof.
Exodus 25:13	And thou shalt make barres of Shittim wood, and couer them with golde.
Exodus 25:14	Then thou shalt put the barres in the rings by the sides of the Arke, to beare the Arke with them.
Exodus 25:15	The barres shalbe in the rings of the Arke: they shall not be taken away from it.
Exodus 25:16	So thou shalt put in the Arke the Testimonie which I shall giue thee.
Exodus 25:17	Also thou shalt make a Mercie seate of pure golde, two cubites and an halfe long, and a cubite and an halfe broade.
Exodus 25:18	And thou shalt make two Cherubims of golde: of worke beaten out with the hammer shalt thou make the at ye two endes of the Merciseate.
Exodus 25:19	And the one Cherub shalt thou make at the one ende, and the other Cherub at the other ende: of the matter of the Mercieseate shall ye make the Cherubims, on the two endes thereof.
Exodus 25:20	And the Cherubims shall stretche their winges on hie, couering the Mercie seate with their winges, and their faces one to another: to the Mercie seate warde shall the faces of the Cherubims be.
Exodus 25:21	And thou shalt put the Mercieseate aboue vpon the Arke, and in the Arke thou shalt put the Testimonie, which I will giue thee,
Exodus 25:22	And there I will declare my selfe vnto thee, and from aboue ye Mercieseate betweene ye two Cherubims, which are vpon ye Arke of ye Testimonie, I wil tel thee al things which I wil giue thee in comandement vnto ye children of Israel.
Exodus 25:23	Thou shalt also make a Table of Shittim wood, of two cubites long, and one cubite broade, and a cubite and an halfe hie:
Exodus 25:24	And thou shalt couer it with pure gold, and make thereto a crowne of golde round about.
Exodus 25:25	Thou shalt also make vnto it a border of foure fingers roud about and thou shalt make a golden crowne round about the border thereof.
Exodus 25:26	After, thou shalt make for it foure ringes of golde, and shalt put the rings in the foure corners that are in the foure feete thereof:
Exodus 25:27	Ouer against the border shall the rings be for places for barres, to beare the Table.
Exodus 25:28	And thou shalt make the barres of Shittim wood, and shalt ouerlay them with golde, that the Table may be borne with them.
Exodus 25:29	Thou shalt make also dishes for it, and incense cuppes for it, and couerings for it, and goblets, wherewith it shall be couered, euen of fine golde shalt thou make them.
Exodus 25:30	And thou shalt set vpon the Table shewe bread before me continually.
Exodus 25:31	Also thou shalt make a Candlesticke of pure golde: of worke beaten out with the hammer shall the Candlesticke be made, his shaft, and his branches, his boules, his knops: and his floures shalbe of the same.
Exodus 25:32	Six braunches also shall come out of the sides of it: three branches of the Candlesticke out of the one side of it, and three branches of the Candlesticke out of the other side of it.
Exodus 25:33	Three boules like vnto almondes, one knop and one floure in one braunch: and three boules like almondes in the other branch, one knop and one floure: so throughout the sixe branches that come out of the Candlesticke.
Exodus 25:34	And in the shaft of the Candlesticke shalbe foure boules like vnto almondes, his knops and his floures.
Exodus 25:35	And there shalbe a knop vnder two branches made thereof: and a knop vnder two branches made thereof: and a knop vnder two branches made thereof, according to the sixe branches comming out of the Candlesticke.
Exodus 25:36	Their knops and their branches shall bee thereof. all this shalbe one beaten worke of pure golde.
Exodus 25:37	And thou shalt make the seuen lampes thereof: and the lampes thereof shalt thou put thereon, to giue light toward that that is before it.
Exodus 25:38	Also the snuffers and snuffedishes thereof shalbe of pure golde.
Exodus 25:39	Of a talent of fine gold shalt thou make it with all these instruments.
Exodus 25:40	Looke therefore that thou make them after their facion, that was shewed thee in the mountaine.
Exodus 26:1	Afterwarde thou shalt make the Tabernacle with tenne curtaines of fine twined linen, and blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet: and in them thou shalt make Cherubims of broydered worke.
Exodus 26:2	The length of one curtaine shalbe eight and twentie cubites, and the bredth of one curtaine, foure cubites: euery one of the curtaines shall haue one measure.
Exodus 26:3	Fiue curtaines shalbe coupled one to an other: and the other fiue curtaines shall be coupled one to another.
Exodus 26:4	And thou shalt make stringes of blew silke vpon the edge of the one curtaine, which is in the seluedge of the coupling: and likewise shalt thou make in the edge of the other curtaine in the seluedge, in the second coupling.
Exodus 26:5	Fiftie strings shalt thou make in one curtaine, and fiftie stringes shalt thou make in the edge of the curtaine, which is in the second coupling: ye stringes shalbe one right against another.
Exodus 26:6	Thou shalt make also fiftie taches of gold, and couple the curtaines one to another with the taches, and it shalbe one tabernacle.
Exodus 26:7	Also thou shalt make curtaines of goates heare, to be a couering vpon the Tabernacle: thou shalt make them to the number of eleuen curtaines.
Exodus 26:8	The length of a curtaine shall be thirtie cubites, and the breadth of a curtaine foure cubites: the eleuen curtaines shalbe of one measure.
Exodus 26:9	And thou shalt couple fiue curtaynes by themselues, and the sixe curtaines by themselues: but thou shalt double the sixt curtaine vpon the forefront of the couering.
Exodus 26:10	And thou shalt make fifty stringes in the edge of one curtayne, in the seluedge of the coupling, and fifty stringes in the edge of the other curtaine in the second coupling.
Exodus 26:11	Likewise thou shalt make fifty taches of brasse, and fasten them on the strings, and shalt couple the couering together, that it may be one.
Exodus 26:12	And the remnant that resteth in ye curtaines of the couering, euen the halfe curtaine that resteth, shalbe left at the backeside of the Tabernacle,
Exodus 26:13	That the cubite on the one side, and the cubite on the other side of that which is left in the legth of the curtaines of ye couering, may remaine on either side of the Tabernacle to couer it.
Exodus 26:14	Moreouer, for that couering thou shalt make a couering of rammes skinnes died red, and a couering of badgers skinnes aboue.
Exodus 26:15	Also thou shalt make boards for the Tabernacle of Shittim wood to stand vp.
Exodus 26:16	Ten cubites shalbe the length of a boarde, and a cubite and an halfe cubite the breadth of one boarde.
Exodus 26:17	Two tenons shalbe in one boarde set in order as the feete of a ladder, one against an other: thus shalt thou make for all the boardes of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 26:18	And thou shalt make boardes for the Tabernacle, euen twenty boardes on the South side, euen full South.
Exodus 26:19	And thou shalt make fourty sockets of siluer vnder the twentie boardes, two sockets vnder one boarde for his two tenons, and two sockets vnder an other boarde for his two tenons.
Exodus 26:20	In like maner on the other side of the Tabernacle towarde the North side shalbe twentie boardes,
Exodus 26:21	And their fourtie sockets of siluer, two sockets vnder one boarde, and two sockets vnder another board.
Exodus 26:22	And on the side of the Tabernacle, toward the West shalt thou make sixe boards.
Exodus 26:23	Also two boardes shalt thou make in the corners of the Tabernacle in the two sides.
Exodus 26:24	Also they shalbe ioyned beneath, and likewise they shalbe ioyned aboue to a ring: thus shall it be for them two: they shalbe for ye two corners.
Exodus 26:25	So they shalbe eight boardes hauing sockets of siluer, euen sixteene sockets, that is, two sockets vnder one board, and two sockets vnder an other boarde.
Exodus 26:26	The thou shalt make fiue barres of Shittim wood for the boardes of one side of the Tabernacle,
Exodus 26:27	And fiue barres for the boardes of the other side of the Tabernacle: also fiue barres for the boardes of the side of the Tabernacle toward the Westside.
Exodus 26:28	And the middle barre shall goe through the middes of the boards, from ende to ende.
Exodus 26:29	And thou shalt couer the boards with golde, and make their rings of golde, for places for the barres, and thou shalt couer the barres with golde.
Exodus 26:30	So thou shalt reare vp the Tabernacle, according to the facion thereof, which was shewed thee in the mount.
Exodus 26:31	Moreouer, thou shalt make a vaile of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen: thou shalt make it of broydred worke with Cherubims.
Exodus 26:32	And thou shalt hang it vpon foure pillars of Shittim wood couered with gold, (whose hookes shalbe of gold) stading vpon foure sockets of siluer.
Exodus 26:33	Afterward thou shalt hang the vaile on the hookes, that thou mayest bring in thither, that is (within the vaile) the arke of the Testimonie: and the vaile shall make you a separation betweene the Holy place and the most holy place.
Exodus 26:34	Also thou shalt put ye Mercy seate vpon the Arke of the testimonie in the most Holy place.
Exodus 26:35	And thou shalt set the Table without the vaile, and the Candlesticke ouer against the Table on the Southside of the Tabernacle, and thou shalt set the Table on the Northside.
Exodus 26:36	Also thou shalt make an hanging for the dore of ye Tabernacle of blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen wrought with needle.
Exodus 26:37	And thou shalt make for the hanging fiue pillars of Shittim, and couer them with gold: their heads shalbe of golde, and thou shalt cast fiue sockets of brasse for them.
Exodus 27:1	Moreouer thou shalt make the altar of Shittim wood, fiue cubites long and fiue cubites broade (the altar shall be foure square) and the height thereof three cubites.
Exodus 27:2	And thou shalt make it hornes in the foure corners thereof: the hornes shalbe of it selfe, and thou shalt couer it with brasse.
Exodus 27:3	Also thou shalt make his ashpannes for his ashes and his besoms, and his basens, and his flesh-hookes, and his censers: thou shalt make all the instruments thereof of brasse.
Exodus 27:4	And thou shalt make vnto it a grate like networke of brasse: also vpon that grate shalt thou make foure brasen rings vpon the foure corners thereof.
Exodus 27:5	And thou shalt put it vnder the compasse of the altar beneath, that the grate may be in the middes of the altar.
Exodus 27:6	Also thou shalt make barres for the altar, barres, I say, of Shittim wood, and shalt couer them with brasse.
Exodus 27:7	And the barres thereof shalbe put in the rings, the which barres shalbe vpon the two sides of the altar to beare it.
Exodus 27:8	Thou shalt make the altar holowe betweene the boardes: as God shewed thee in the mount, so shall they make it.
Exodus 27:9	Also thou shalt make the court of the Tabernacle in the Southside, euen full South: the court shall haue curtaines of fine twined linnen, of an hundreth cubites long, for one side,
Exodus 27:10	And it shall haue twentie pillars, with their twentie sockets of brasse: the heades of the pillars, and their filets shalbe siluer.
Exodus 27:11	Likewise on the Northside in length there shalbe hangings of an hundreth cubites long, and the twentie pillars thereof with their twentie sockets of brasse: the heades of the pillars and the filets shalbe siluer.
Exodus 27:12	And the breadth of the court on the Westside shall haue curtaines of fiftie cubites, with their ten pillars and their ten sockets.
Exodus 27:13	And the breadth of the court, Eastwarde full East shall haue fiftie cubites.
Exodus 27:14	Also hangings of fifteene cubites shalbe on the one side with their three pillars and their three sockets.
Exodus 27:15	Likewise on the other side shalbe hangings of fifteene cubites, with their three pillars and their three sockets.
Exodus 27:16	And in the gate of the court shalbe a vaile of twentie cubites, of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen wrought with needle, with the foure pillars thereof and their foure sockets.
Exodus 27:17	All the pillars of the court shall haue filets of siluer round about, with their heads of siluer, and their sockets of brasse.
Exodus 27:18	The length of the court shalbe an hundreth cubites, and the breadth fiftie at either ende, and the height fiue cubites, and the hangings of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brasse.
Exodus 27:19	Al the vessels of the Tabernacle for al maner seruice thereof, and all the pinnes thereof, and all the pinnes of the court shalbe brasse.
Exodus 27:20	And thou shalt commande the children of Israel, that they bring vnto thee pure oyle oliue beaten, for the light, that the lampes may alway burne.
Exodus 27:21	In the Tabernacle of the Congregation without the vaile, which is before the Testimony, shall Aaron and his sonnes dresse them from euening to morning before the Lord, for a statute for euer vnto their generations, to be obserued by the children of Israel.
Exodus 28:1	And cause thou thy brother Aaron to come vnto thee and his sonnes with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may serue me in the Priestes office: I meane Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar Aarons sonnes.
Exodus 28:2	Also thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, glorious and beautifull.
Exodus 28:3	Therefore thou shalt speake vnto al cunning men, whome I haue filled with the spirite of wisedome, that they make Aarons garments to consecrate him, that he may serue me in the Priestes office.
Exodus 28:4	Nowe these shall be the garments, which they shall make, a brest plate, and an Ephod, and a robe, and a broydred coate, a miter, and a girdle. so these holy garments shall they make for Aaron thy brother, and for his sonnes, that he may serue me in the Priests office.
Exodus 28:5	Therefore they shall take golde, and blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linnen,
Exodus 28:6	And they shall make the Ephod of gold, blewe silke, and purple, skarlet, and fine twined linen of broydred worke.
Exodus 28:7	The two shoulders thereof shalbe ioyned together by their two edges: so shall it be closed.
Exodus 28:8	And the embroydred garde of the same Ephod, which shalbe vpon him, shall be of the selfe same worke and stuffe, euen of golde, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 28:9	And thou shalt take two onix stones, and graue vpon them the names of the children of Israel:
Exodus 28:10	Sixe names of them vpon the one stone, and the sixe names that remaine, vpon the seconde stone, according to their generations.
Exodus 28:11	Thou shalt cause to graue the two stones according to the names of the children of Israel by a grauer of signets, that worketh and graueth in stone, and shalt make them to be set and embossed in golde.
Exodus 28:12	And thou shalt put the two stones vpon the shoulders of the Ephod, as stones of remebrance of the children of Israel: for Aaron shall beare their names before the Lord vpon his two shoulders for a remembrance.
Exodus 28:13	So thou shalt make bosses of golde,
Exodus 28:14	And two cheynes of fine golde at the ende, of wrethed worke shalt thou make them, and shalt fasten the wrethed cheynes vpon the bosses.
Exodus 28:15	Also thou shalt make the brest plate of iudgement with broydred worke: like the worke of the Ephod shalt thou make it: of gold, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen shalt thou make it.
Exodus 28:16	Foure square it shall be and double, an hand bredth long and an hand bredth broade.
Exodus 28:17	Then thou shalt set it full of places for stones, euen foure rowes of stones: the order shalbe this, a rubie, a topaze, and a carbuncle in the first rowe.
Exodus 28:18	And in the seconde rowe thou shalt set an emeraude, a saphir, and a diamonde.
Exodus 28:19	And in the third rowe a turkeis, an achate, and an hematite.
Exodus 28:20	And in the fourth rowe a chrysolite, an onix, and a iasper: and they shall be set in golde in their embossements.
Exodus 28:21	And the stones shall be according to the names of the children of Israel, twelue, according to their names, grauen as signets, euerye one after his name, and they shall bee for the twelue tribes.
Exodus 28:22	Then thou shalt make vpon the breast plate two cheines at the endes of wrethen worke of pure golde.
Exodus 28:23	Thou shalt make also vpon the brest plate two rings of golde, and put the two rings on the two endes of the brest plate.
Exodus 28:24	And thou shalt put the two wrethen chaynes of golde in the two rings in the endes of the brest plate.
Exodus 28:25	And the other two endes of the two wrethen cheines, thou shalt fasten in ye two embossements, and shalt put them vpon the shoulders of the Ephod on the foreside of it.
Exodus 28:26	Also thou shalt make two rings of gold, which thou shalt put in the two other endes of the brest plate, vpon the border thereof, towarde the inside of the Ephod.
Exodus 28:27	And two other rings of golde thou shalt make, and put them on the two sides of the Ephod, beneath in the forepart of it ouer against the coupling of it vpon the broydred garde of the Ephod.
Exodus 28:28	Thus they shall binde the brest plate by his rings vnto the rings of the Ephod, with a lace of blewe silke, that it may be fast vpon the broydred garde of the Ephod, and that the brest plate be not loosed from the Ephod.
Exodus 28:29	So Aaron shall beare the names of the children of Israel in the brest plate of iudgement vpon his heart, when he goeth into the holy place, for a remembrance continually before the Lord.
Exodus 28:30	Also thou shalt put in the brest plate of iudgement the Vrim and the Thummim, which shalbe vpon Aarons heart, when he goeth in before the Lord: and Aaron shall beare the iudgement of the children of Israel vpon his heart before the Lord continually.
Exodus 28:31	And thou shalt make the robe of the Ephod altogether of blewe silke.
Exodus 28:32	And the hole for his head shalbe in the middes of it, hauing an edge of wouen woorke rounde about the coller of it: so it shalbe as the coller of an habergeon that it rent not.
Exodus 28:33	And beneath vpon the skirtes thereof thou shalt make pomegranates of blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, round about the skirts thereof, and belles of gold betweene them round about:
Exodus 28:34	That is, a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate rounde about vpon the skirtes of the robe.
Exodus 28:35	So it shalbe vpon Aaron, when he ministreth, and his sound shalbe heard, when he goeth into the holy place before the Lord, and when he commeth out, and he shall not dye.
Exodus 28:36	Also thou shalt make a plate of pure golde, and graue thereon, as signets are grauen, Holines To The Lord,
Exodus 28:37	And thou shalt put it on a blew silke lace, and it shalbe vpon the miter: euen vpon the fore front of the miter shall it be.
Exodus 28:38	So it shalbe vpon Aarons forehead, that Aaron may beare the iniquitie of the offrings, which the children of Israel shall offer in all their holy offrings: and it shall be alwayes vpon his forehead, to make them acceptable before the Lord.
Exodus 28:39	Likewise thou shalt embroyder the fine line coat, and thou shalt make a miter of fine line, but thou shalt make a girdell of needle worke.
Exodus 28:40	Also thou shalt make for Aarons sonnes coates, and thou shalt make the girdels, and bonets shalt thou make them for glorie and comelinesse.
Exodus 28:41	And thou shalt put them vpon Aaron thy brother, and on his sonnes with him, and shalt anoint them, and fill their handes, and sanctifie them, that they may minister vnto me in the Priestes office.
Exodus 28:42	Thou shalt also make them linen breeches to couer their priuities: from the loynes vnto the thighs shall they reache.
Exodus 28:43	And they shalbe for Aaron and his sonnes when they come into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, or whe they come vnto the altar to minister in the holy place, that they commit not iniquitie, and so die. This shalbe a lawe for euer vnto him and to his seede after him.
Exodus 29:1	This thing also shalt thou do vnto them whe thou consecratest them to be my Priestes, Take a yong calfe, and two rams without blemish,
Exodus 29:2	And vnleauened bread and cakes vnleauened tempered with oyle, and wafers vnleauened anoynted with oyle: (of fine wheate flowre shalt thou make them)
Exodus 29:3	Then thou shalt put them in one basket, and present them in the basket with the calfe and the two rammes,
Exodus 29:4	And shalt bring Aaron and his sonnes vnto the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and wash them with water.
Exodus 29:5	Also thou shalt take the garments, and put vpon Aaron the tunicle, and the robe of the Ephod, and the Ephod, and the brest plate, and shalt close them to him with the broidred garde of the Ephod.
Exodus 29:6	Then thou shalt put the miter vpon his head, and shalt put the holy crowne vpon ye miter.
Exodus 29:7	And thou shalt take the anoynting oyle, and shalt powre vpon his head, and anoynt him.
Exodus 29:8	And thou shalt bring his sonnes, and put coates vpon them,
Exodus 29:9	And shalt girde them with girdles, both Aaron and his sonnes: and shalt put the bonets on them, and the Priestes office shalbe theirs for a perpetuall lawe: thou shalt also fill the hands of Aaron, and the hands of his sonnes.
Exodus 29:10	After, thou shalt present the calfe before the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and Aaron and his sonnes shall put their handes vpon the head of the calfe.
Exodus 29:11	So thou shalt kill the calfe before the Lord, at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Exodus 29:12	Then thou shalt take of the blood of the calfe, and put it vpon the hornes of the altar with thy finger, and shalt powre al the rest of the blood at the foote of the altar.
Exodus 29:13	Also thou shalt take all the fat that couereth the inwardes, and the kall, that is on the liuer, and the two kidneis, and the fat that is vpon them, and shalt burne them vpon the altar.
Exodus 29:14	But the flesh of the calfe, and his skin, and his doung shalt thou burne with fire without the hoste: it is a sinne offring.
Exodus 29:15	Thou shalt also take one ramme, and Aron and his sonnes shall put their hands vpon the head of the ramme.
Exodus 29:16	Then thou shalt kill the ramme, and take his blood, and sprinkle it round about vpon the altar,
Exodus 29:17	And thou shalt cut the ramme in pieces, and wash the inwards of him and his legges, and shalt put them vpon the pieces thereof, and vpon his head.
Exodus 29:18	So thou shalt burne the whole ram vpon the altar: for it is a burnt offering vnto the Lord for a sweete sauour: it is an offering made by fire vnto the Lord.
Exodus 29:19	And thou shalt take the other ramme, and Aaron and his sonnes shall put their handes vpon the head of the ramme.
Exodus 29:20	Then thou shalt kill the ramme, and take of his blood and put it vpon the lappe of Aarons eare, and vpon the lappe of the right eare of his sonnes, and vpon the thumbe of their right hand, and vpon the great toe of their right foote, and shalt sprinkle the blood vpon ye altar roud about.
Exodus 29:21	And thou shalt take of the blood that is vpon the altar, and of the anoynting oyle, and shalt sprinkle it vpon Aaron, and vpon his garments, and vpon his sonnes, and vpon the garments of his sonnes with him: so he shall be halowed, and his clothes, and his sonnes, and the garments of his sonnes with him.
Exodus 29:22	Also thou shalt take of the rammes ye fatte and the rumpe, euen the fat that couereth the inwards, and the kall of the liuer, and the two kidneis, and the fat that is vpon them, and the right shoulder, (for it is the ramme of consecration)
Exodus 29:23	And one loafe of bread, and one cake of bread tempered with oyle, and one wafer, out of the basket of the vnleauened bread that is before the Lord.
Exodus 29:24	And thou shalt put al this in the handes of Aaron, and in the handes of his sonnes, and shalt shake them to and from before the Lord.
Exodus 29:25	Againe, thou shalt receyue them of their handes, and burne them vpon the altar besides the burnt offring for a sweete sauour before ye Lord: for this is an offering made by fire vnto the Lord.
Exodus 29:26	Likewise thou shalt take the brest of the ram of the consecration, which is for Aaron, and shalt shake it to and from before the Lord and it shalbe thy part.
Exodus 29:27	And thou shalt sanctifie the brest of the shaken offering, and the shoulder of the heaue offering, which was shaken to and from, and which was heaued vp of the ramme of the consecration, which was for Aaron, and which was for his sonnes.
Exodus 29:28	And Aaron and his sonnes shall haue it by a statute for euer, of the children of Israel: for it is an heaue offering, and it shall be an heaue offering of the children of Israel, of their peace offerings, euen their heaue offering to the Lord.
Exodus 29:29	And the holy garmets, which appertaine to Aaron, shall bee his sonnes after him, to bee anoynted therein, and to bee consecrate therein.
Exodus 29:30	That sonne that shalbe Priest in his steade, shall put them on seuen dayes, when he commeth into the Tabernacle of the Congregation to minister in the holy place.
Exodus 29:31	So thou shalt take the ram of the consecration, and seeth his flesh in the holy place.
Exodus 29:32	And Aaron and his sonnes shall eate the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket, at the doore of ye Tabernacle of ye Congregation.
Exodus 29:33	So they shall eate these thinges, whereby their attonement was made, to consecrate them, and to sanctifie them: but a stranger shall not eate thereof, because they are holy things.
Exodus 29:34	Now if ought of the flesh of the consecration, or of the bread remaine vnto the morning, then thou shalt burne the rest with fire: it shall not be eaten, because it is an holie thing.
Exodus 29:35	Therefore shalt thou doe thus vnto Aaron and vnto his sonnes, according to all things, which I haue commanded thee: seuen dayes shalt thou consecrate them,
Exodus 29:36	And shalt offer euery day a calfe for a sinne offring, for reconciliation: and thou shalt cleanse the altar, when thou hast offred vpon it for reconciliation, and shalt annoynt it, to sanctifie it.
Exodus 29:37	Seuen dayes shalt thou cleanse the altar, and sanctifie it, so the altar shalbe most holy: and whatsoeuer toucheth the altar, shalbe holy.
Exodus 29:38	Nowe this is that which thou shalt present vpon the altar: euen two lambes of one yere olde, day by day continually.
Exodus 29:39	The one lambe thou shalt present in the morning, and the other lambe thou shalt present at euen.
Exodus 29:40	And with the one lambe, a tenth part of fine floure mingled with the fourth part of an Hin of beaten oyle, and the fourth part of an Hin of wine, for a drinke offring.
Exodus 29:41	And the other lambe thou shalt present at euen: thou shalt doe thereto according to the offring of the morning, and according to the drinke offring thereof, to be a burnt offring for a sweete sauour vnto, the Lord.
Exodus 29:42	This shalbe a continuall burnt offring in your generations at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the Lord, where I wil make appoyntment with you, to speake there vnto thee.
Exodus 29:43	There I will appoynt with the children of Israel, and the place shall bee sanctified by my glorie.
Exodus 29:44	And I will sanctifie the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the altar: I will sanctifie also Aaron and his sonnes to be my Priests,
Exodus 29:45	And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will bee their God.
Exodus 29:46	Then shall they knowe that I am ye Lord their God, that brought them out of the lande of Egypt, that I might dwell among them: I am the Lord their God.
Exodus 30:1	Fvrthermore thou shalt make an altar for sweete perfume, of Shittim wood thou shalt make it.
Exodus 30:2	The length therof a cubite and the breadth thereof a cubite (it shalbe foure square) and the height thereof two cubites: the hornes thereof shalbe of the same,
Exodus 30:3	And thou shalt ouerlay it with fine golde, both the toppe therof and the sides thereof round about, and his hornes: also thou shalt make vnto it a crowne of gold round about.
Exodus 30:4	Besides this thou shalt make vnder this crowne two golden rings on either side: euen on euery side shalt thou make them, that they may be as places for the barres to beare it withall.
Exodus 30:5	The which barres thou shalt make of Shittim wood, and shalt couer them with golde.
Exodus 30:6	After thou shalt set it before the vaile, that is neere the Arke of Testimonie, before the Merciseate that is vpon the Testimonie, where I will appoynt with thee.
Exodus 30:7	And Aaron shall burne thereon sweete incense euery morning: when hee dresseth the lampes thereof, shall he burne it.
Exodus 30:8	Likewise at eue, when Aaron setteth vp the lampes thereof, he shall burne incense: this perfume shalbe perpetually before ye Lord, throughout your generations.
Exodus 30:9	Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice, nor offring, neither powre any drinke offring thereon.
Exodus 30:10	And Aaron shall make reconciliation vpon the hornes of it once in a yere with the blood of the sinne offring in the day of reconciliation: once in the yeere shall hee make reconciliation vpon it throughout your generations: this is most holy vnto the Lord.
Exodus 30:11	Afterward the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 30:12	When thou takest the summe of the children of Israel after their nomber, then they shall giue euery man a redemption of his life vnto the Lord, when thou tellest them, that there bee no plague among the when thou countest them.
Exodus 30:13	This shall euery man giue, that goeth into the nomber, halfe a shekel, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie: (a shekel is twentie gerahs) the halfe shekel shalbe an offring to the Lord.
Exodus 30:14	All that are nombred from twentie yeere olde and aboue, shall giue an offring to the Lord.
Exodus 30:15	The rich shall not passe, and the poore shall not diminish from halfe a shekel, when ye shall giue an offring vnto the Lord, for the redemption of your liues.
Exodus 30:16	So thou shalt take the money of the redemption of the children of Israel, and shalt put it vnto the vse of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, that it may be a memoriall vnto the children of Israel before the Lord for the redemption of your liues.
Exodus 30:17	Also the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 30:18	Thou shalt also make a lauer of brasse, and his foote of brasse to wash, and shalt put it betweene the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the Altar, and shalt put water therein.
Exodus 30:19	For Aaron and his sonnes shall wash their hands and their feete thereat.
Exodus 30:20	When they go into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, or when they goe vnto the Altar to minister and to make the perfume of ye burnt offring to the Lord, they shall wash themselues with water, lest they die.
Exodus 30:21	So they shall wash their handes and their feete that they die not: and this shall be to them an ordinance for euer, both vnto him and to his seede throughout their generations.
Exodus 30:22	Also the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 30:23	Take thou also vnto thee, principall spices of the most pure myrrhe fiue hundreth shekels, of sweete cinamon halfe so much, that is, two hundreth and fiftie, and of sweete calamus, two hundreth, and fiftie:
Exodus 30:24	Also of cassia fiue hundreth, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, and of oyle oliue an Hin.
Exodus 30:25	So thou shalt make of it the oyle of holie oyntment, euen a most precious oyntment after the arte of the Apothecarie: this shalbe the oyle of holy oyntment.
Exodus 30:26	And thou shalt anoynt the Tabernacle of the Congregation therewith, and the Arke of the Testimonie:
Exodus 30:27	Also the Table, and al the instruments thereof, and the Candlesticke, with all the instruments thereof, and the altar of incense:
Exodus 30:28	Also the Altar of burnt offring with al his instruments, and the lauer and his foote.
Exodus 30:29	So thou shalt sanctifie them, and they shalbe most holy: all that shall touch them, shalbe holy.
Exodus 30:30	Thou shalt also anoint Aaron and his sonnes, and shalt consecrate them, that they may minister vnto me in the Priests office.
Exodus 30:31	Moreouer thou shalt speake vnto the children of Israel, saying, This shalbe an holy oynting oyle vnto me, throughout your generations.
Exodus 30:32	None shall anoynt, mans flesh therewith, neither shall ye make any composition like vnto it: for it is holy, and shalbe holy vnto you.
Exodus 30:33	Whosoeuer shall make the like oyntment, or whosoeuer shall put any of it vpon a stranger, euen he shalbe cut off from his people.
Exodus 30:34	And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Take vnto thee these spices, pure myrrhe and cleare gumme and galbanum, these odours with pure frankincense, of eche like weight:
Exodus 30:35	Then thou shalt make of them perfume composed after the arte of the apothecarie, mingled together, pure and holy.
Exodus 30:36	And thou shalt beate it to pouder, and shalt put of it before the Arke of the Testimonie in the Tabernacle of ye Cogregatio, where I wil make appointmet with thee: it shalbe vnto you most holy.
Exodus 30:37	And ye shall not make vnto you any composition like this perfume, which thou shalt make: it shalbe vnto thee holy for the Lord.
Exodus 30:38	Whosoeuer shall make like vnto that to smelll thereto, euen he shalbe cut off from his people.
Exodus 31:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 31:2	Behold, I haue called by name, Bezaleel the sonne of Vri, the sonne of Hur of the tribe of Iudah,
Exodus 31:3	Whom I haue filled with the Spirit of God, in wisedome, and in vnderstanding and in knowledge and in all workmanship:
Exodus 31:4	To finde out curious workes to worke in golde, and in siluer, and in brasse,
Exodus 31:5	Also in the arte to set stones, and to carue in timber, and to worke in all maner of workmaship.
Exodus 31:6	And behold, I haue ioyned with him Aholiab the sonne of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan, and in the hearts of all that are wise hearted, haue I put wisdome to make all that I haue commanded thee:
Exodus 31:7	That is, the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the Arke of the Testimonie, and the Merciseate that shalbe therevpon, with all instruments of the Tabernacle:
Exodus 31:8	Also the Table and the instruments thereof, and the pure Candlesticke with all his instruments, and the Altar of perfume:
Exodus 31:9	Likewise the Altar of burnt offring with al his instruments, and the Lauer with his foote:
Exodus 31:10	Also the garments of the ministration, and ye holy garments for Aaron ye Priest, and the garmets of his sonnes, to minister in the Priestes office,
Exodus 31:11	And the anoynting oyle, and sweete perfume for the Sanctuarie: according to all that I haue commanded thee, shall they do.
Exodus 31:12	Afterwarde the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 31:13	Speake thou also vnto the children of Israel, and say, Notwithstanding keepe yee my Sabbaths: for it is a signe betweene me and you in your generations, that ye may know that I the Lord do sanctifie you.
Exodus 31:14	Ye shall therefore keepe the Sabbath: for it is holy vnto you: he that defileth it, shall die the death: therefore whosoeuer worketh therin, the same person shalbe euen cut off from among his people.
Exodus 31:15	Sixe dayes shall men worke, but in the seuenth day is the Sabbath of the holy rest to the Lord: whosoeuer doeth any worke in the Sabbath day, shall dye the death.
Exodus 31:16	Wherfore the children of Israel shall keepe the Sabbath, that they may obserue the rest throughout their generations for an euerlasting couenant.
Exodus 31:17	It is a signe betweene me and the children of Israel for euer: for in sixe dayes the Lord made the heauen and the earth, and in the seuenth day he ceased, and rested.
Exodus 31:18	Thus (when the Lord had made an ende of communing with Moses vpon mount Sinai) he gaue him two Tables of the Testimonie, euen tables of stone, written with the finger of God.
Exodus 32:1	Bvt when the people sawe, that Moses taryed long or he came downe from the mountaine, the people gathered themselues together against Aaron, and sayde vnto him, Vp, make vs gods to goe before vs: for of this Moses (the man that brought vs out of the land of Egypt) we knowe not what is become of him.
Exodus 32:2	And Aaron said vnto them, Plucke off the golden earings, which are in the eares of your wiues, of your sonnes, and of your daughters, and bring them vnto me.
Exodus 32:3	Then all ye people pluckt from them selues the golden earings, which were in their eares, and they brought them vnto Aaron.
Exodus 32:4	Who receiued them at their handes, and facioned it with the grauing toole, and made of it a molte calfe: then they said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee out of ye lad of Egypt
Exodus 32:5	When Aaron sawe that, he made an Altar before it: and Aaron proclaimed, saying, To morow shalbe the holy day of the Lord.
Exodus 32:6	So they rose vp the next day in the morning, and offred burnt offerings, and brought peace offrings: also the people sate them downe to eate and drinke, and rose vp to play.
Exodus 32:7	Then the Lord said vnto Moses, Go, get thee downe: for thy people which thou hast brought out of the land of Egypt, hath corrupted their wayes.
Exodus 32:8	They are soone turned out of the way, which I commanded them: for they haue made them a molten calfe and haue worshipped it, and haue offered thereto, saying, These be thy gods, O Israel, which haue brought thee out of the lande of Egypt.
Exodus 32:9	Againe the Lord said vnto Moses, I haue seene this people, and beholde, it is a stiffe necked people.
Exodus 32:10	Nowe therefore let mee alone, that my wrath may waxe hote against them, for I wil consume the: but I wil make of thee a mighty people.
Exodus 32:11	But Moses praied vnto the Lord his God, and said, O Lord, why doeth thy wrath waxe hote against thy people, which thou hast brought out of the lande of Egypt, with great power and with a mightie hand?
Exodus 32:12	Wherefore shall the Egyptians speake, and say, He hath brought them out maliciously for to slay them in the mountaines, and to consume them from the earth? turne from thy fearce wrath, and change thy minde from this euill towarde thy people.
Exodus 32:13	Remember Abraham, Izhak, and Israel thy seruants, to whom thou swarest by thine owne selfe, and saydest vnto them, I wil multiply your seede, as the starres of the heauen, and all this land, that I haue spoken of, wil I giue vnto your seede, and they shall inherit it for euer.
Exodus 32:14	Then the Lord changed his minde from the euil, which he threatned to do vnto his people.
Exodus 32:15	So Moses returned and went downe from the mountaine with the two Tables of the Testimonie in his hande: the Tables were written on both their sides, euen on the one side and on the other were they written.
Exodus 32:16	And these Tables were the worke of God, and this writing was the writing of God grauen in the Tables.
Exodus 32:17	And when Ioshua heard the noyse of the people, as they shouted, he said vnto Moses, There is a noyse of warre in the hoste.
Exodus 32:18	Who answered, It is not the noyse of them that haue the victorie, nor the noyse of them that are ouercome: but I do heare ye noyse of singing.
Exodus 32:19	Nowe, as soone as he came neere vnto the hoste, he sawe the calfe and the dancing: so Moses wrath waxed hote, and he cast the Tables out of his handes, and brake them in pieces beneath the mountaine.
Exodus 32:20	After, he tooke the calfe, which they had made, and burned it in the fire, and ground it vnto powder, and strowed it vpon the water, and made the children of Israel drinke of it.
Exodus 32:21	Also Moses said vnto Aaron, What did this people vnto thee, that thou hast brought so great a sinne vpon them?
Exodus 32:22	Then Aaron answered, Let not the wrath of my Lord waxe fearce: Thou knowest this people, that they are euen set on mischiefe.
Exodus 32:23	And they sayde vnto me, Make vs gods to go before vs: for we knowe not what is become of this Moses (the man that brought vs out of the land of Egypt.)
Exodus 32:24	Then I sayde to them, Ye that haue golde, plucke it off: and they brought it me, and I did cast it into the fire, and thereof came this calfe.
Exodus 32:25	Moses therefore sawe that the people were naked (for Aaron had made them naked vnto their shame among their enemies)
Exodus 32:26	And Moses stoode in ye gate of the campe, and sayde, Who pertaineth to the Lord? let him come to mee. And all the sonnes of Leui gathered themselues vnto him.
Exodus 32:27	Then he said vnto them, Thus sayth ye Lord God of Israel, Put euery man his sworde by his side: go to and from, from gate to gate, through the hoste, and slay euery man his brother, and euery man his companion, and euery man his neighbour.
Exodus 32:28	So the children of Leui did as Moses had commanded: and there fel of the people the same day about three thousand men.
Exodus 32:29	(For Moses had said, Cosecrate your hands vnto the Lord this day, euen euery man vpon his sonne, and vpon his brother, that there may be giuen you a blessing this day)
Exodus 32:30	And when the morning came, Moses sayde vnto the people, Yee haue committed a grieuous crime: but now I wil goe vp to the Lord, if I may pacifie him for your sinne.
Exodus 32:31	Moses therefore went againe vnto ye Lord, and said, Oh, this people haue sinned a great sinne, and haue made them gods of golde.
Exodus 32:32	Therefore now if thou pardon their sinne, thy mercy shall appeare: but if thou wilt not, I pray thee, rase me out of thy booke, which thou hast written.
Exodus 32:33	Then the Lord sayd to Moses, Whosoeuer hath sinned against me, I will put out of my booke.
Exodus 32:34	Go nowe therefore, bring the people vnto the place which I commanded thee: behold, mine Angel shall goe before thee, but yet in the day of my visitation I wil visite their sinne vpon them.
Exodus 32:35	So the Lord plagued the people, because they caused Aaron to make ye calfe which he made.
Exodus 33:1	Afterward the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Depart, goe vp from hence, thou, and the people (which thou hast brought vp out of lande of Egypt) vnto the lande which I sware vnto Abraham, to Izhak and to Iaakob, saying, Vnto thy seede will I giue it.
Exodus 33:2	And I will send an Angel before thee and will cast out the Canaanites, the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, the Hiuites, and the Iebusites:
Exodus 33:3	To a lande, I say, that floweth with milke and hony: for I will not goe vp with thee, because thou art a stiffe necked people, least I consume thee in the way.
Exodus 33:4	And when the people heard this euill tydings, they sorowed, and no man put on his best rayment.
Exodus 33:5	(For the Lord had said to Moses, Say vnto the children of Israel, Ye are a stiffe necked people, I wil come suddenly vpon thee, and consume thee: therefore now put thy costly rayment from thee, that I may know what to do vnto thee)
Exodus 33:6	So the children of Israel layed their good raiment from them, after Moses came downe from the mount Horeb.
Exodus 33:7	Then Moses tooke his tabernacle, and pitched it without the host farre off from the hoste, and called it Ohel-moed. And whe any did seeke to the Lord, he went out vnto the Tabernacle of the Congregation, which was without the hoste.
Exodus 33:8	And when Moses went out vnto the Tabernacle, all the people rose vp, and stood euery man at his tent doore, and looked after Moses, vntil he was gone into the Tabernacle.
Exodus 33:9	And assoone as Moses was entred into the Tabernacle, the cloudie pillar descended and stood at the doore of the Tabernacle, and the Lord talked with Moses.
Exodus 33:10	Nowe when all the people saw the cloudie pillar stand at the Tabernacle doore, all the people rose vp, and worshipped euery man in his tent doore.
Exodus 33:11	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, face to face, as a man speaketh vnto his friende. After he turned againe into the hoste, but his seruant Ioshua the sonne of Nun a yong man, departed not out of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 33:12	Then Moses sayde vnto the Lord, See, thou sayest vnto me, Leade this people forth, and thou hast not shewed me whom thou wilt sende with mee: thou hast sayde moreouer, I knowe thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight.
Exodus 33:13	Nowe therefore, I pray thee, if I haue founde fauour in thy sight, shewe mee nowe thy way, that I may knowe thee, and that I may finde grace in thy sight: consider also that this nation is thy people.
Exodus 33:14	And he answered, My presence shall go with thee, and I will giue thee rest.
Exodus 33:15	Then he sayd vnto him, If thy presence go not with vs, cary vs not hence.
Exodus 33:16	And wherein nowe shall it be knowen, that I and thy people haue found fauour in thy sight? shall it not be when thou goest with vs? so I, and thy people shall haue preeminence before all the people that are vpon the earth.
Exodus 33:17	And the Lord sayde vnto Moses, I will doe this also that thou hast saide: for thou hast founde grace in my sight, and I knowe thee by name.
Exodus 33:18	Againe he sayde, I beseech thee, shewe me thy glory.
Exodus 33:19	And he answered, I wil make all my good go before thee, and I wil proclaime the Name of the Lord before thee: for I will shewe mercy to whom I will shewe mercy, and will haue compassion on whom I will haue compassion.
Exodus 33:20	Furthermore he sayde, Thou canst not see my face, for there shall no man see me, and liue.
Exodus 33:21	Also the Lord sayd, Behold, there is a place by me, and thou shalt stand vpon the rocke:
Exodus 33:22	And while my glory passeth by, I will put thee in a cleft of the rocke, and will couer thee with mine hand whiles I passe by.
Exodus 33:23	After I will take away mine hande, and thou shalt see my backe parts: but my face shall not be seene.
Exodus 34:1	And the Lord saide vnto Moses, Hewe thee two Tables of stone, like vnto the first, and I will write vpon the Tables the wordes that were in the first Tables, which thou brakest in pieces.
Exodus 34:2	And be ready in ye morning, that thou mayest come vp earely vnto the mount of Sinai, and waite there for me in the top of the mount.
Exodus 34:3	But let no man come vp with thee, neither let any man be seene throughout all the mount, neyther let the sheepe nor cattell feede before this mount.
Exodus 34:4	Then Moses hewed two Tables of stone like vnto the first, and rose vp earely in the morning, and went vp vnto the mount of Sinai, as the Lord had commanded him, and tooke in his hande two Tables of stone.
Exodus 34:5	And the Lord descended in the cloude, and stoode with him there, and proclaimed the name of the Lord.
Exodus 34:6	So the Lord passed before his face, and cried, The Lord, the Lord, strong, mercifull, and gracious, slowe to anger, and abundant in goodnesse and trueth,
Exodus 34:7	Reseruing mercy for thousands, forgiuing iniquitie, and transgression and sinne, and not making the wicked innocent, visiting the iniquitie of the fathers vpon ye children, and vpon childrens children, vnto the third and fourth generation.
Exodus 34:8	Then Moses made haste and bowed him selfe to the earth, and worshipped,
Exodus 34:9	And sayde, O Lord, I pray thee, If I haue founde grace in thy sight, that the Lord woulde nowe goe with vs (for it is a stiffe necked people) and pardon our iniquitie and our sinne, and take vs for thine inheritance.
Exodus 34:10	And he answered, Behold, I will make a couenant before all thy people, and will do marueiles, such as haue not bene done in all the worlde, neyther in all nations: and all the people among whom thou art, shall see the worke of the Lord: for it is a terrible thing that I will do with thee.
Exodus 34:11	Keepe diligently that which I commande thee this day: Beholde, I will cast out before thee the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Hiuites, and the Iebusites.
Exodus 34:12	Take heede to thy selfe, that thou make no compact with ye inhabitantes of the land whither thou goest, least they be the cause of ruine among you:
Exodus 34:13	But yee shall ouerthrowe their altars, and breake their images in pieces, and cut downe their groues,
Exodus 34:14	(For thou shalt bow downe to none other god, because the Lord, whose Name is Ielous, is a ielous God)
Exodus 34:15	Lest thou make a compact with the inhabitantes of the lande, and when they goe a whoring after their gods, and doe sacrifice vnto their gods, some man call thee, and thou eate of his sacrifice:
Exodus 34:16	And least thou take of their daughters vnto thy sonnes, and their daughters goe a whoring after their gods, and make thy sonnes goe a whoring after their gods.
Exodus 34:17	Thou shalt make thee no gods of metall.
Exodus 34:18	The feast of vnleauened bread shalt thou keepe: seuen dayes shalt thou eate vnleauened bread, as I commanded thee, in ye time of the moneth of Abib: for in the moneth of Abib thou camest out of Egypt.
Exodus 34:19	Euery male, that first openeth the wombe, shalbe mine: also all the first borne of thy flocke shalbe rekoned mine, both of beeues and sheepe.
Exodus 34:20	But ye first of ye asse thou shalt bie out with a lambe: and if thou redeeme him not, then thou shalt breake his necke: all the first borne of thy sonnes shalt thou redeeme, and none shall appeare before me emptie.
Exodus 34:21	Six dayes shalt thou worke, and in the seuenth day thou shalt rest: both in earing time, and in the haruest thou shalt rest.
Exodus 34:22	Thou shalt also obserue the feast of weekes in the time of ye first fruits of wheate haruest, and the feast of gathering fruites in the ende of the yere.
Exodus 34:23	Thrise in a yere shall all your men children appeare before the Lord Iehouah God of Israel.
Exodus 34:24	For I wil cast out the nations before thee, and enlarge thy coasts, so that no man shall desire thy land, whe thou shalt come vp to appeare before the Lord thy God thrise in the yeere.
Exodus 34:25	Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leauen, neither shall ought of the sacrifice of the feast of Passeouer be left vnto the morning.
Exodus 34:26	The first ripe fruites of thy land thou shalt bring vnto the house of the Lord thy God: yet shalt thou not seethe a kid in his mothers milke.
Exodus 34:27	And the Lord said vnto Moses, Write thou these words: for after the tenour of these words I haue made a couenant with thee and with Israel.
Exodus 34:28	So hee was there with the Lord fourtie dayes and fourtie nights, and did neither eat bread nor drinke water: and hee wrote in the Tables the wordes of the couenant, euen the tenne commandements.
Exodus 34:29	So when Moses came downe from mount Sinai, the two Tables of the Testimonie were in Moses hande, as hee descended from the mount: (nowe Moses wist not that the skinne of his face shone bright, after that God had talked with him.
Exodus 34:30	And Aaron and all the children of Israel looked vpon Moses, and beholde, the skin of his face shone bright, and they were afraid to come neere him)
Exodus 34:31	But Moses called them: and Aaron and all the chiefe of the congregation returned vnto him: and Moses talked with them.
Exodus 34:32	And afterwarde all the children of Israel came neere, and he charged them with al that the Lord had said vnto him in mount Sinai.
Exodus 34:33	So Moses made an end of comuning with them, and had put a couering vpon his face.
Exodus 34:34	But, when Moses came before the Lord to speake with him, he tooke off the couering vntill he came out: then he came out, and spake vnto the children of Israel that which he was commanded.
Exodus 34:35	And the children of Israel sawe the face of Moses, howe the skin of Moses face shone bright: therefore Moses put the couering vpon his face, vntill he went to speake with God.
Exodus 35:1	Then Moses assembled all the Congregation of the children of Israel, and sayd vnto them, These are the wordes which the Lord hath commanded, that ye should do them:
Exodus 35:2	Six dayes thou shalt work, but the seuenth day shall bee vnto you the holy Sabbath of rest vnto the Lord: whosoeuer doth any worke therein, shall die.
Exodus 35:3	Ye shall kindle no fire throughout all your habitations vpon the Sabbath day.
Exodus 35:4	Againe, Moses spake vnto all the Congregation of the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which the Lord commandeth, saying,
Exodus 35:5	Take from among you an offering vnto the Lord: whosoeuer is of a willing heart, let him bring this offring to the Lord, namely golde, and siluer, and brasse:
Exodus 35:6	Also blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linen, and goates heare,
Exodus 35:7	And rams skins died red, and badgers skins with Shittim wood:
Exodus 35:8	Also oyle for light, and spices for the anointing oyle, and for the sweete incense,
Exodus 35:9	And onix stones, and stones to be set in the Ephod, and in the brest plate.
Exodus 35:10	And all the wise hearted among you, shall come and make all that the Lord hath commanded:
Exodus 35:11	That is, the Tabernacle, that pauilion thereof, and his couering, and his taches and his boards, his barres, his pillars and his sockets,
Exodus 35:12	The Arke, and the barres thereof ye Merci-seate, and the vaile that couereth it,
Exodus 35:13	The Table, and the barres of it, and all the instruments thereof, and the shewe bread:
Exodus 35:14	Also the Candlesticke of light and his instruments, and his lampes with the oyle for the light:
Exodus 35:15	Likewise the Altar of perfume and his barres, and the anoynting oyle, and the sweete incense, and the vaile of the doore at the entring in of the Tabernacle,
Exodus 35:16	The Altar of burnt offering with his brasen grate, his barres and all his instruments, the Lauer and his foote,
Exodus 35:17	The hangings of the court, his pillars and his sockets, and the vaile of the gate of the court,
Exodus 35:18	The pinnes of the Tabernacle, and the pinnes of the court with their cordes,
Exodus 35:19	The ministring garments to minister in the holy place, and the holy garments for Aaron the Priest, and the garmentes of his sonnes, that they may minister in the Priests office.
Exodus 35:20	Then all the Congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.
Exodus 35:21	And euery one, whose heart encouraged him, and euery one, whose spirit made him willing, came and brought an offring to the Lord, for the worke of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and for all his vses, and for the holy garments.
Exodus 35:22	Both men and women, as many as were free hearted, came and brought taches and earings, and rings, and bracelets, all were iewels of golde: and euery one that offered an offring of gold vnto the Lord:
Exodus 35:23	Euery man also, which had blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linen, and goates heare, and rammes skinnes died red, and badgers skins, brought them.
Exodus 35:24	All that offered an oblation of siluer and of brasse, brought the offring vnto the Lord: and euery one, that had Shittim wood for any maner worke of the ministration, brought it.
Exodus 35:25	And all the women that were wise hearted, did spin with their hands, and brought ye spun worke, euen the blewe silke, and the purple, the skarlet, and the fine linen.
Exodus 35:26	Likewise al the women, whose hearts were moued with knowledge, spun goates heare.
Exodus 35:27	And ye rulers brought onix stones, and stones to be set in the Ephod, and in the brest plate:
Exodus 35:28	Also spice, and oyle for light, and for the anoynting oyle, and for the sweete perfume.
Exodus 35:29	Euery man and woman of the children of Israel, whose hearts moued the willingly to bring for all the worke which the Lord had commanded the to make by the hand of Moses, brought a free offring to the Lord.
Exodus 35:30	Then Moses sayde vnto the children of Israel, Beholde, the Lord hath called by name Bezaleel the sonne of Vri, the sonne of Hur of the tribe of Iudah,
Exodus 35:31	And hath filled him with an excellent spirit of wisdome, of vnderstanding, and of knowledge, and in all maner worke,
Exodus 35:32	To finde out curious workes, to worke in golde, and in siluer, and in brasse,
Exodus 35:33	And in grauing stones to set them, and in karuing of wood, euen to make any maner of fine worke.
Exodus 35:34	And he hath put in his heart that hee may teach other: both hee, and Aholiab the sonne of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan:
Exodus 35:35	Them hath he filled with wisdome of heart to worke all maner of cunning and broidred, and needle worke: in blewe silke, and in purple, in skarlet, and in fine linnen and weauing, euen to do all maner of worke and subtill inuentions.
Exodus 36:1	Then wrought Bezaleel, and Aholiab, and all cunning men, to whome the Lord gaue wisedome, and vnderstanding, to knowe howe to worke all maner worke for the seruice of the Sanctuarie, according to all that the Lord had commanded.
Exodus 36:2	For Moses had called Bezaleel, and Aholiab, and all the wise hearted men, in whose heartes the Lord had giuen wisedome, euen as many as their hearts encouraged to come vnto that worke to worke it.
Exodus 36:3	And they receiued of Moses all the offering which the children of Israel had brought for the worke of the seruice of the Sanctuary, to make it: also they brought still vnto him free giftes euery morning.
Exodus 36:4	So all the wise men, that wrought all the holy worke, came euery man from his worke which they wrought,
Exodus 36:5	And spake to Moses, saying, The people bring too much, and more then ynough for the vse of the worke, which the Lord hath commanded to be made.
Exodus 36:6	Then Moses gaue a commandement, and they caused it to be proclaymed throughout the hoste, saying, Let neither man nor woman prepare any more worke for the oblation of the Sanctuarie. So the people were stayed from offring.
Exodus 36:7	For the stuffe they had, was sufficient for all the worke to make it, and too much.
Exodus 36:8	All the cunning men therefore among the workemen, made for the Tabernacle ten curtaines of fine twined linnen, and of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet: Cherubims of broydred worke made they vpon them.
Exodus 36:9	The length of one curtaine was twentie and eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtaine foure cubites: and the curtaines were all of one cise.
Exodus 36:10	And he coupled fiue curtaines together, and other fiue coupled he together.
Exodus 36:11	And he made strings of blewe silke by the edge of one curtaine, in the seluedge of the coupling: likewise he made on the side of the other curtaine in the seluedge in the second coupling.
Exodus 36:12	Fiftie strings made he in the one curtaine, and fiftie strings made he in the edge of the other curtaine, which was in the second coupling: the strings were set one against another.
Exodus 36:13	After, he made fiftie taches of golde, and coupled the curtaines one to another with the taches: so was it one Tabernacle.
Exodus 36:14	Also he made curtaines of goates heare for the couering vpon the Tabernacle: he made them to the nomber of eleuen curtaines.
Exodus 36:15	The length of one curtaine had thirtie cubites, and the bredth of one curtaine foure cubites: the eleuen curtaines were of one cise.
Exodus 36:16	And hee coupled fiue curtaines by themselues, and sixe curtaines by themselues:
Exodus 36:17	Also he made fiftie strings vpon the edge of one curtaine in the seluedge in the coupling, and fiftie strings made hee vpon the edge of the other curtaine in the second coupling.
Exodus 36:18	He made also fiftie taches of brasse to couple the couering that it might be one.
Exodus 36:19	And he made a couering vpon the pauilion of rams skinnes dyed red, and a couering of badgers skinnes aboue.
Exodus 36:20	Likewise he made the boards for the Tabernacle, of Shittim wood to stand vp.
Exodus 36:21	The length of a board was ten cubites, and the bredth of one board was a cubite, and an halfe.
Exodus 36:22	One board had two tenons, set in order as the feete of a ladder, one against another: thus made he for all the boardes of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 36:23	So he made twentie boardes for the South side of the Tabernacle, euen full South.
Exodus 36:24	And fourtie sockets of siluer made he vnder the twentie boardes, two sockets vnder one board for his two tenons, and two sockets vnder another board for his two tenons.
Exodus 36:25	Also for the other side of the Tabernacle toward the North, he made twentie boards,
Exodus 36:26	And their fourtie sockets of siluer, two sockets vnder one board, and two sockets vnder another boarde.
Exodus 36:27	Likewise toward the Westside of the Tabernacle he made sixe boardes.
Exodus 36:28	And two boardes made he in the corners of the Tabernacle, for either side,
Exodus 36:29	And they were ioyned beneath, and likewise were made sure aboue with a ring: thus he did to both in both corners.
Exodus 36:30	So there were eight boards and their sixteene sockets of siluer, vnder euery board two sockets.
Exodus 36:31	After, he made barres of Shittim wood, fiue for the boards in ye one side of ye Tabernacle,
Exodus 36:32	And fiue barres for the boardes in the other side of the Tabernacle, and fiue barres for the boards of the Tabernacle on the side toward the West.
Exodus 36:33	And he made the middest barre to shoote through the boards, from the one end to ye other.
Exodus 36:34	He ouerlayd also the boards with gold, and made their rings of gold for places for the barres, and couered the barres with golde.
Exodus 36:35	Moreouer he made a vaile of blew silke, and purple, and of skarlet, and of fine twined linen: with Cherubims of broydred worke made he it:
Exodus 36:36	And made thereunto foure pillars of Shittim, and ouerlayd them with golde: whose hookes were also of golde, and hee cast for them foure sockets of siluer.
Exodus 36:37	And he made an hanging for the Tabernacle doore, of blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linnen, and needle worke,
Exodus 36:38	And the fiue pillars of it with their hookes, and ouerlayde their chapiters and their filets with golde, but their fiue sockets were of brasse.
Exodus 37:1	After this, Bezaleel made the Arke of Shittim wood, two cubites and an halfe long and a cubite and an halfe broade, and a cubite and an halfe hie:
Exodus 37:2	And ouerlayde it with fine golde within and without, and made a crowne of golde to it rounde about,
Exodus 37:3	And cast for it foure rings of golde for the foure corners of it: that is, two rings for the one side of it, and two rings for the other side thereof.
Exodus 37:4	Also he made barres of Shittim wood, and couered them with golde,
Exodus 37:5	And put the barres in the rings by the sides of the Arke, to beare the Arke.
Exodus 37:6	And he made the Merciseate of pure golde: two cubites and an halfe was the length thereof, and one cubite and an halfe the breadth thereof.
Exodus 37:7	And he made two Cherubims of gold, vpon the two endes of the Merciseate: euen of worke beaten with the hammer made he them.
Exodus 37:8	One Cherub on the one ende, and another Cherub on the other ende: of the Merciseate made he the Cherubims, at ye two endes thereof.
Exodus 37:9	And the Cherubims spread out their wings on hie, and couered the Merciseat with their wings, and their faces were one towards another: towarde the Merciseat were the faces of the Cherubims.
Exodus 37:10	Also he made ye Table of Shittim wood: two cubites was the length thereof, and a cubite the breadth thereof, and a cubite and an halfe the height of it.
Exodus 37:11	And hee ouerlayde it with fine golde, and made thereto a crowne of golde round about.
Exodus 37:12	Also he made thereto a border of an hand breadth round about, and made vpon the border a crowne of golde round about.
Exodus 37:13	And he cast for it foure rings of gold, and put the rings in the foure corners that were in the foure feete thereof.
Exodus 37:14	Against the border were the rings, as places for the barres to beare the Table.
Exodus 37:15	And he made the barres of Shittim wood, and couered them with golde to beare the Table.
Exodus 37:16	Also he made the instruments for the Table of pure golde: dishes for it, and incense cuppes for it, and goblets for it, and couerings for it, wherewith it should be couered.
Exodus 37:17	Likewise he made the Candlesticke of pure golde: of worke beaten out with the hammer made he the Candlesticke: and his shaft, and his branche, his bolles, his knops, and his floures were of one piece.
Exodus 37:18	And sixe branches came out of the sides thereof: three branches of the Candlesticke out of the one side of it, and three branches of the Candlesticke out of the other side of it.
Exodus 37:19	In one branche three bolles made like almondes, a knop and a floure: and in another branch three bolles made like almondes, a knop and a floure: and so throughout the sixe branches that proceeded out of the Candlesticke.
Exodus 37:20	And vpon the Candlesticke were foure bolles after the facion of almondes, the knoppes thereof and the floures thereof:
Exodus 37:21	That is, vnder euery two branches a knop made thereof, and a knop vnder the second branch thereof, and a knop vnder the thirde branche thereof, according to the sixe branches comming out of it.
Exodus 37:22	Their knops and their branches were of the same: it was all one beaten worke of pure gold.
Exodus 37:23	And he made for it seuen lampes with the snuffers, and snufdishes thereof of pure golde.
Exodus 37:24	Of a talent of pure golde made he it with all the instruments thereof.
Exodus 37:25	Furthermore he made the perfume altar of Shittim wood: the length of it was a cubite, and the breadth of it a cubite (it was square) and two cubites hie, and the hornes thereof were of ye same.
Exodus 37:26	And he couered it with pure gold, both the top and the sides thereof rounde about, and the hornes of it, and made vnto it a crowne of golde round about.
Exodus 37:27	And he made two rings of gold for it, vnder the crowne thereof in the two corners of the two sides thereof, to put barres in for to beare it therewith.
Exodus 37:28	Also he made the barres of Shittim wood, and ouerlayde them with golde.
Exodus 37:29	And he made the holy anointing oyle, and the sweete pure incense after ye apothecaries arte.
Exodus 38:1	Also he made the altar of the burnt offering of Shittim wood: fiue cubites was the length therof, and fiue cubites the breadth thereof: it was square and three cubites hie.
Exodus 38:2	And hee made vnto it hornes in the foure corners thereof: the hornes thereof were of the same, and he ouerlayd it with brasse.
Exodus 38:3	Also he made al the instruments of the altar: the ashpans, and the besoms, and the basins, the fleshhookes, and the censers: all the instruments thereof made he of brasse.
Exodus 38:4	Moreouer he made a brasen grate wrought like a net to the Altar, vnder the compasse of it beneath in the middes of it,
Exodus 38:5	And cast foure rings of brasse for the foure endes of the grate to put barres in.
Exodus 38:6	And he made the barres of Shittim wood, and couered them with brasse.
Exodus 38:7	The which barres he put into the rings on the sides of the altar to beare it withall, and made it hollow within the boardes.
Exodus 38:8	Also he made the Lauer of brasse, and the foote of it of brasse of the glasses of the women that did assemble and came together at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Exodus 38:9	Finally he made the court on the South side full South: the hangings of the court were of fine twined linnen, hauing an hundreth cubites.
Exodus 38:10	Their pillars were twentie, and their brasen sockets twentie: the hookes of the pillars, and their filets were of siluer.
Exodus 38:11	And on the Northside the hanginges were an hundreth cubites: their pillars twentie, and their sockets of brasse twentie, the hookes of the pillars and their filets of siluer.
Exodus 38:12	On the Westside also were hangings of fiftie cubites, their ten pillars with their ten sockets: the hookes of the pillars and their filets of siluer.
Exodus 38:13	And toward ye Eastside, full East were hangings of fiftie cubites.
Exodus 38:14	The hangings of the one side were fifteene cubites, their three pillars, and their three sockets:
Exodus 38:15	And of the other side of the court gate on both sides were hangings of fifteene cubites, with their three pillars and their three sockets.
Exodus 38:16	All the hangings of the court round about were of fine twined linen:
Exodus 38:17	But the sockets of ye pillars were of brasse: the hookes of the pillars and their filets of siluer, and the couering of their chapiters of siluer: and all the pillars of the court were hooped about with siluer.
Exodus 38:18	He made also the hanging of the gate of the court of needle worke, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen euen twentie cubites long, and fiue cubites in height and bredth, like the hangings of the court.
Exodus 38:19	And their pillars were foure with their foure sockets of brasse: their hookes of siluer, and the couering of their chapiters, and their filets of siluer.
Exodus 38:20	But all the pins of the Tabernacle and of the court round about were of brasse.
Exodus 38:21	These are the parts of the Tabernacle, I meane, of the Tabernacle of the Testimonie, which was appovnted by the commandement of Moses for the office of the Leuites by the hande of Ithamar sonne to Aaron the Priest.
Exodus 38:22	So Bezaleel the sonne of Vri the sonne of Hur of the tribe of Iudah, made all that the Lord commanded Moses.
Exodus 38:23	And with him Aholiab sonne of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan, a cunning workeman and an embroiderer and a worker of needle work in blew silke, and in purple, and in skarlet, and in fine linen.
Exodus 38:24	All ye gold that was occupied in all ye worke wrought for the holy place (which was the gold of the offring) was nine and twentie talents, and seuen hundreth and thirtie shekels, according to the shekel of the Sanctuarie.
Exodus 38:25	But the siluer of them that were numbred in the Congregation, was an hundreth talents, and a thousand seuen hundreth seuentie and fiue shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie.
Exodus 38:26	A portion for a man, that is, halfe a shekel after ye shekel of the Sanctuarie, for all them that were numbred from twentie yeere olde and aboue, among sixe hundreth thousande, and three thousand, and fiue hundreth and fiftie men.
Exodus 38:27	Moreouer there were an hundreth talentes of siluer, to cast ye sockets of ye Sanctuary, and the sockets of the vaile: an hundreth sockets of an hundreth talents, a talent for a socket.
Exodus 38:28	But he made the hookes for the pillars of a thousande seuen hundreth and seuentie and fiue shekels, and ouerlayde their chapiters, and made filets about them.
Exodus 38:29	Also the brasse of the offering was seuentie talents, and two thousande, and foure hundreth shekels.
Exodus 38:30	Whereof he made the sockets to the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the brasen altar, and the brasen grate which was for it, with all the instruments of the Altar,
Exodus 38:31	And the sockets of the court round about, and the sockets for the court gate, and al the pins of the Tabernacle, and all the pins of the court round about.
Exodus 39:1	Moreouer they made garments of ministration to minister in the Sanctuarie of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet: they made also the holy garments for Aaron, as the Lord had comanded Moses.
Exodus 39:2	So he made the Ephod of gold, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 39:3	And they did beate the golde into thinne plates, and cut it into wiers, to worke it in ye blewe silke and in the purple, and in the skarlet, and in the fine linen, with broydred worke.
Exodus 39:4	For the which they made shoulders to couple together: for it was closed by the two edges thereof.
Exodus 39:5	And the broydred garde of his Ephod that was vpon him, was of the same stuffe, and of like worke: euen of golde, of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:6	And they wrought two Onix stones closed in ouches of golde, and graued, as signets are grauen, with the names of the children of Israel,
Exodus 39:7	And put them on the shoulders of the Ephod, as stones for a remembrance of the children of Israel, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:8	Also he made the brestplate of broydred worke like the worke of the Ephod: to wit, of gold, blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 39:9	They made the brest plate double, and it was square, an hand breadth long, and an hand breadth broad: it was also double.
Exodus 39:10	And they filled it with foure rowes of stones. The order was thus, a Rubie, a Topaze, and a Carbuncle in the first rowe:
Exodus 39:11	And in the seconde rowe, an Emeraude, a Saphir, and a Diamond:
Exodus 39:12	Also in the thirde rowe, a Turkeis, an Achate, and an Hematite:
Exodus 39:13	Likewise in the fourth rowe, a Chrysolite, an Onix, and a Iasper: closed and set in ouches of golde.
Exodus 39:14	So the stones were according to the names of the children of Israel, euen twelue after their names, grauen like signets euery one after his name according to the twelue tribes.
Exodus 39:15	After, they made vpon the brest plate cheines at the endes, of wrethen worke and pure golde.
Exodus 39:16	They made also two bosses of golde, and two golde rings, and put the two rings in the two corners of the brest plate.
Exodus 39:17	And they put ye two wrethe cheines of gold in the two rings, in the corners of the brest plate.
Exodus 39:18	Also the two other endes of the two wrethen chaines they fastened in the two bosses, and put the on the shoulders of the Ephod vpon the forefront of it.
Exodus 39:19	Likewise they made two rings of gold, and put them in the two other corners of the brest plate vpon the edge of it, which was on the inside of the Ephod.
Exodus 39:20	They made also two other golden rings, and put them on the two sides of the Ephod, beneath on the foreside of it, and ouer against his coupling aboue the broydered garde of the Ephod.
Exodus 39:21	Then they fastened the brest plate by his rings vnto the rings of the Ephod, with a lace of blewe silke, that it might bee fast vpon the broydered garde of the Ephod, and that the brest plate should not be loosed from the Ephod, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:22	Moreouer, he made the robe of the Ephod of wouen worke, altogether of blewe silke.
Exodus 39:23	And the hole of the robe was in the middes of it, as the coller of an habergeon, with an edge about the coller, that it shoulde not rent.
Exodus 39:24	And they made vpon the skirts of the robe pomegranates, of blewe silke, and purple, and skarlet, and fine linen twined.
Exodus 39:25	They made also belles of pure gold and put the belles betweene the pomegranates vpon the skirtes of the robe rounde about betweene the pomegranates.
Exodus 39:26	A bel and a pomegranate, a bel and a pomegranate round about the skirts of the robe to minister in, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:27	After, they made coates of fine linen, of wouen worke for Aaron and for his sonnes.
Exodus 39:28	And the miter of fine linen, and goodly bonnets of fine linen, and linen breeches of fine twined linen,
Exodus 39:29	And the girdle of fine twined linen, and of blew silke, and purple, and skarlet, euen of needle worke, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:30	Finally they made the plate for the holy crowne of fine golde, and wrote vpon it a superscription like to the grauing of a signet, HOLINES TO THE LORD.
Exodus 39:31	And they tied vnto it a lace of blewe silke to fasten it on hie vpon the miter, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:32	Thus was all the worke of the Tabernacle, euen of the Tabernacle of the Congregation finished: and the children of Israel did according to al that the Lord had commanded Moses: so dyd they.
Exodus 39:33	Afterwarde they brought the Tabernacle vnto Moses, the Tabernacle and al his instruments, his taches, his boards, his barres, and his pillars, and his sockets,
Exodus 39:34	And the couering of rammes skinnes died red, and the couerings of badgers skinnes, and the couering vaile.
Exodus 39:35	The Arke of the Testimony, and the barres thereof, and the Merciseate,
Exodus 39:36	The Table, with all the instruments thereof, and the shewebread,
Exodus 39:37	The pure Candlesticke, the lampes thereof, euen the lampes set in order, and all the instruments thereof, and the oyle for light:
Exodus 39:38	Also the golden Altar and the anoynting oyle, and the sweete incense, and the hanging of the Tabernacle doore,
Exodus 39:39	The brasen Altar with his grate of brasse, his barres and all his instruments, the Lauer and his foote.
Exodus 39:40	The curtaines of the court with his pillars, and his sockets, and the hanging to the court gate, and his cordes, and his pinnes, and all the instruments of the seruice of the Tabernacle, called the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Exodus 39:41	Finally, the ministring garmentes to serue in the Sanctuarie, and the holy garmentes for Aaron the Priest, and his sonnes garmentes to minister in the Priestes office.
Exodus 39:42	According to euery poynt that the Lord had commanded Moses, so the children of Israel made all the worke.
Exodus 39:43	And Moses beheld al the worke, and behold, they had done it as the Lord had commanded: so had they done: and Moses blessed them.
Exodus 40:1	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Exodus 40:2	In the first day of the first moneth in the very first of the same moneth shalt thou set vp the Tabernacle, called ye Tabernacle of the Congregation:
Exodus 40:3	And thou shalt put therein the Arke of the Testimonie, and couer the Arke with the vaile.
Exodus 40:4	Also thou shalt bring in the Table, and set it in order as it doth require: thou shalt also bring in the Candlesticke, and light his lampes,
Exodus 40:5	And thou shalt set ye incense Altar of gold before the Arke of the Testimonie, and put the hanging at the doore of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 40:6	Moreouer, thou shalt set the burnt offering Altar before the doore of the Tabernacle, called the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Exodus 40:7	And thou shalt set the Lauer betweene the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the Altar, and put water therein.
Exodus 40:8	Then thou shalt appoynt the courte round about, and hang vp the hanging at the courte gate.
Exodus 40:9	After, thou shalt take the anoynting oyle, and anoynt the Tabernacle, and all that is therein, and halowe it with all the instruments thereof, that it may be holy.
Exodus 40:10	And thou shalt anoynt the Altar of the burnt offring, and all his instruments, and shalt sanctifie the Altar, that it may bee an altar most holie.
Exodus 40:11	Also thou shalt anoynt the Lauer, and his foote, and shalt sanctifie it.
Exodus 40:12	Then thou shalt bring Aaron and his sonnes vnto the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and wash them with water.
Exodus 40:13	And thou shalt put vpon Aaron the holy garmentes, and shalt anoynt him, and sanctifie him, that he may minister vnto me in the Priestes office.
Exodus 40:14	Thou shalt also bring his sonnes, and clothe them with garments,
Exodus 40:15	And shalt anoynt them as thou diddest anoynt their father, that they may minister vnto mee in the Priestes office: for their anoynting shall be a signe, that the Priesthood shall be euerlasting vnto them throughout their generations.
Exodus 40:16	So Moses did according to all that ye Lord had commanded him: so did he.
Exodus 40:17	Thus was the Tabernacle reared vp the first day of the first moneth in the seconde yeere.
Exodus 40:18	Then Moses reared vp the Tabernacle and fastened his sockets, and set vp the boardes thereof, and put in the barres of it, and reared vp his pillars.
Exodus 40:19	And he spred the couering ouer the Tabernacle, and put the couering of that couering on hie aboue it, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:20	And he tooke and put the Testimonie in the Arke, and put the barres in the ringes of the Arke, and set the Merciseate on hie vpon the Arke.
Exodus 40:21	He brought also the Arke into the Tabernacle, and hanged vp the couering vaile, and couered the Arke of the Testimonie, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:22	Furthermore he put the Table in the Tabernacle of the Congregation in the Northside of the Tabernacle, without the vaile,
Exodus 40:23	And set the bread in order before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:24	Also he put the Candlesticke in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, ouer against the Table toward ye Southside of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 40:25	And he lighted the lampes before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:26	Moreouer he set the golden Altar in the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the vayle,
Exodus 40:27	And burnt sweete incense thereon, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:28	Also he hanged vp the vayle at the doore of the Tabernacle.
Exodus 40:29	After, he set the burnt offring Altar without the doore of the Tabernacle, called the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and offered the burnt offering and the sacrifice thereon, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:30	Likewise he set the Lauer betweene the Tabernacle of the Congregation and the Altar, and powred water therein to wash with.
Exodus 40:31	So Moses and Aaron, and his sonnes washed their handes and their feete thereat.
Exodus 40:32	When they went into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and when they approched to the Altar, they washed, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:33	Finally, he reared vp the court rounde about the Tabernacle and the Altar, and hanged vp the vaile at the court gate: so Moses finished the worke.
Exodus 40:34	Then the cloud couered the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the glorie of the Lord filled the Tabernacle.
Exodus 40:35	So Moses could not enter into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, because the cloude abode thereon, and the glorie of the Lord filled the Tabernacle.
Exodus 40:36	Nowe when the cloude ascended vp from the Tabernacle, the children of Israel went forward in all their iourneyes.
Exodus 40:37	But if the cloude ascended not, then they iourneyed not till the day that it ascended.
Exodus 40:38	For the cloude of the Lord was vpon the Tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their iourneyes.

===== BOOK: Ezekiel =====
Ezekiel 1:1	It came to passe in the thirtieth yere in the fourth moneth, and in the fift day of the moneth (as I was among the captiues by the riuer Chebar) that the heauens were opened and I sawe visions of GOD.
Ezekiel 1:2	In the fift day of the moneth (which was the fift yere of King Ioiachins captiuitie)
Ezekiel 1:3	The word of the Lord came vnto Ezekiel the Priest, the sonne of Buzi, in the lande of the Caldeans, by the riuer Chebar, where the hande of the Lord was vpon him.
Ezekiel 1:4	And I looked, and beholde, a whirlewinde came out of the North, a great cloude and a fire wrapped about it, and a brightnesse was about it, and in the middes thereof, to wit, in the middes of the fire came out as the likenesse of amber.
Ezekiel 1:5	Also out of the middes therof came the likenesse of foure beastes, and this was their forme: they had the appearance of a man.
Ezekiel 1:6	And euery one had foure faces, and euery one had foure wings.
Ezekiel 1:7	And their feete were streight feete, and the sole of their feete was like the sole of a calues foote, and they sparkled like the appearance of bright brasse.
Ezekiel 1:8	And the handes of a man came out from vnder their wings in the foure parts of them, and they foure had their faces, and their wings.
Ezekiel 1:9	They where ioyned by their wings one to another, and when they went forth, they returned not, but euery one went streight forward.
Ezekiel 1:10	And the similitude of their faces was as the face of a man: and they foure had the face of a lyon on the right side, and they foure had the face of a bullocke on the left side: they foure also had the face of an eagle.
Ezekiel 1:11	Thus were their faces: but their wings were spred out aboue: two wings of euery one were ioined one to another, and two couered their bodies.
Ezekiel 1:12	And euery one went streight forward: they went whither their spirit led them, and they returned not when they went forth.
Ezekiel 1:13	The similitude also of the beasts, and their appearance was like burning coles of fire, and like the appearance of lampes: for the fire ran among the beastes, and the fire gaue a glister, and out of the fire there went lightning.
Ezekiel 1:14	And the beastes ranne, and returned like vnto lightning.
Ezekiel 1:15	Nowe as I behelde the beastes, beholde, a wheele appeared vpon the earth by the beastes, hauing foure faces.
Ezekiel 1:16	The facion of the wheeles and their worke was like vnto a chrysolite: and they foure had one forme, and their facion, and their worke was as one wheele in another wheele.
Ezekiel 1:17	Whe they went, they went vpon their foure sides, and they returned not when they went.
Ezekiel 1:18	They had also rings, and height, and were fearefull to beholde, and their rings were full of eyes, round about them foure.
Ezekiel 1:19	And when the beastes went, the wheeles went with them: and when the beasts were lift vp from the earth, the wheeles were lift vp.
Ezekiel 1:20	Whither the spirit led them, they went, and thither did the spirite of the wheeles leade them, and the wheeles were lifted vp besides them: for the spirit of the beastes was in the wheeles.
Ezekiel 1:21	When the beastes went, they went, and when they stoode, they stoode, and when they were lifted vp from the earth, the wheeles were lifted vp besides them: for the spirite of the beastes was in the wheeles.
Ezekiel 1:22	And the similitude of the firmament vpon the heads of the beasts was wonderfull, like vnto chrystall, spred ouer their heads aboue.
Ezekiel 1:23	And vnder the firmament were their wings streight, the one toward the other: every one had two, which couered the, and euery one had two, which couered their bodies.
Ezekiel 1:24	And when they went foorth, I heard the noyse of their wings, like the noyse of great waters, and as the voyce of the Almightie, euen the voyce of speach, as the noyse of an host: and when they stood, they let downe their wings.
Ezekiel 1:25	And there was a voyce from the firmament, that was ouer their heads, when they stoode, and had let downe their wings.
Ezekiel 1:26	And aboue the firmament that was ouer their heads, was the facion of a throne like vnto a saphir stone, and vpon the similitude of the throne was by appearance, as the similitude of a man aboue vpon it.
Ezekiel 1:27	And I sawe as the appearance of amber, and as the similitude of fire round about within it to looke to, euen from his loynes vpwarde: and to looke to, euen from his loynes downewarde, I sawe as a likenesse of fire, and brightnesse round about it.
Ezekiel 1:28	As the likenesse of the bowe, that is in the cloude in the day of raine, so was the appearance of the light round about.
Ezekiel 1:29	This was the appearance of the similitude of the glorie of the Lord: and when I sawe it, I fell vpon my face, and I heard a voyce of one that spake.
Ezekiel 2:1	And he said vnto me, Sonne of man, stand vp vpon thy feete, and I wil speake vnto thee.
Ezekiel 2:2	And the Spirite entred into me, when he had spoken vnto me, and set me vpon my feete, so that I heard him that spake vnto me.
Ezekiel 2:3	And he said vnto me, Sonne of man, I send thee to the children of Israel, to a rebellious nation that hath rebelled against me: for they and their fathers haue rebelled against me, euen vnto this very day.
Ezekiel 2:4	For they are impudent children, and stiffe hearted: I do send thee vnto them, and thou shalt say vnto them, Thus saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 2:5	But surely they will not heare, neither in deede will they cease: for they are a rebellious house: yet shall they knowe that there hath bene a Prophet among them.
Ezekiel 2:6	And thou sonne of man, feare them not, neither be afraide of their wordes, although rebels, and thornes be with thee, and thou remainest with scorpions: feare not their wordes, nor be afrayde at their lookes, for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 2:7	Therefore thou shalt speake my words vnto them: but surely they will not heare, neither will they in deede cease: for they are rebellious.
Ezekiel 2:8	But thou sonne of man, heare what I say vnto thee: be not thou rebellious, like this rebellious house: open thy mouth, and eate that I giue thee.
Ezekiel 2:9	And when I looked vp, beholde, an hande was sent vnto me, and loe, a roule of a booke was therein.
Ezekiel 2:10	And he spred it before me, and it was written within and without, and there was written therein, Lamentations, and mourning, and woe.
Ezekiel 3:1	Moreover he saide vnto me, Sonne of man, eate that thou findest: eate this roule, and goe, and speake vnto the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 3:2	So I opened my mouth, and he gaue mee this roule to eate.
Ezekiel 3:3	And he said vnto me, Sonne of man, cause thy belly to eate, and fill thy bowels with this roule that I giue thee. Then did I eate it, and it was in my mouth as sweete as honie.
Ezekiel 3:4	And he said vnto me, Sonne of man, goe, and enter into the house of Israel, and declare them my wordes.
Ezekiel 3:5	For thou art not sent to a people of an vnknowen tongue, or of an hard language, but to the house of Israel,
Ezekiel 3:6	Not to many people of an vnknowen tongue, or of an harde language, whose wordes thou canst not vnderstand: yet if I should sende thee to them, they would obey thee.
Ezekiel 3:7	But the house of Israel will not obey thee: for they will not obey me: yea, all the house of Israel are impudent and stiffe hearted.
Ezekiel 3:8	Beholde, I haue made thy face strong against their faces, and thy forehead harde against their foreheads.
Ezekiel 3:9	I haue made thy forehead as the adamant, and harder then the flint: feare them not therefore, neither be afraid at their lookes: for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 3:10	He said moreouer vnto me, Sonne of man, receiue in thine heart al my words that I speake vnto thee, and heare them with thine eares,
Ezekiel 3:11	And goe and enter to them that are led away captiues vnto the children of thy people, and speake vnto them, and tell them, Thus saith the Lord God: but surely they will not heare, neither will they in deede cease.
Ezekiel 3:12	Then the spirite tooke me vp, and I heard behinde me a noise of a great russhing, saying, Blessed be ye glorie of the Lord out of his place.
Ezekiel 3:13	I heard also the noyse of the wings of the beasts, that touched one another, and the ratling of the wheeles that were by them, euen a noyse of a great russhing.
Ezekiel 3:14	So the spirit lift me vp, and tooke me away and I went in bitternesse, and indignation of my spirite, but the hand of the Lord was strong vpon me.
Ezekiel 3:15	Then I came to them that were led away captiues to Tel-abib, that dwelt by the riuer Chebar, and I sate where they sate, and remained there astonished among them seuen dayes.
Ezekiel 3:16	And at the ende of seuen dayes, the worde of the Lord came againe vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 3:17	Sonne of man, I haue made thee a watchman vnto the house of Israel: therefore heare the worde at my mouth, and giue them warning from me.
Ezekiel 3:18	When I shall say vnto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die, and thou giuest not him warning, nor speakest to admonish the wicked of his wicked way, that he may liue, the same wicked man shall die in his iniquitie: but his blood will I require at thine hande.
Ezekiel 3:19	Yet if thou warne the wicked, and he turne not from his wickednesse, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquitie, but thou hast deliuered thy soule.
Ezekiel 3:20	Likewise if a righteous man turne from his righteousnesse, and commit iniquitie, I will lay a stumbling blocke before him, and he shall die, because thou hast not giuen him warning: he shall die in his sinne, and his righteous deedes, which he hath done, shall not be remembred: but his blood will I require at thine hand.
Ezekiel 3:21	Neuerthelesse, if thou admonish that righteous man, that the righteous sinne not, and that he doeth not sinne, he shall liue because he is admonished: also thou hast deliuered thy soule.
Ezekiel 3:22	And the hande of the Lord was there vpon me, and he said vnto me, Arise, and goe into the fielde, and I will there talke with thee.
Ezekiel 3:23	So when I had risen vp, and gone foorth into the fielde, beholde, the glorie of the Lord stoode there, as the glorie which I sawe by the riuer Chebar, and I fell downe vpon my face.
Ezekiel 3:24	Then the Spirit entred into me, which set me vp vpon my feete, and spake vnto me, and said to me, Come, and shut thy selfe within thine house.
Ezekiel 3:25	But thou, O sonne of man, beholde, they shall put bandes vpon thee, and shall binde thee with them, and thou shalt not goe out among them.
Ezekiel 3:26	And I will make thy tongue cleaue to the roofe of thy mouth, that thou shalt be dume, and shalt not be to them as a man that rebuketh: for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 3:27	But when I shall haue spoken vnto thee, I will open thy mouth, and thou shalt say vnto them, Thus saith the Lord God, He that heareth, let him heare, and he that leaueth off, let him leaue: for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 4:1	Thou also sonne of man, take thee a bricke, and lay it before thee, and pourtray vpon it the citie, euen Ierusalem,
Ezekiel 4:2	And lay siege against it, and builde a fort against it, and cast a mount against it: set the campe also against it, and lay engins of warre against it rounde about.
Ezekiel 4:3	Moreouer, take an yron pan, and set it for a wall of yron betweene thee and the citie, and direct thy face towarde it, and it shall be besieged, and thou shalt lay siege against it: this shall be a signe vnto the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 4:4	Sleepe thou also vpon thy left side, and lay the iniquitie of the house of Israel vpon it: according to the nomber of the dayes, that thou shalt sleepe vpon it, thou shalt beare their iniquity.
Ezekiel 4:5	For I haue layed vpon thee the yeeres of their iniquitie, according to the nomber of the dayes, euen three hundreth and ninetie dayes: so shalt thou beare the iniquitie of the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 4:6	And when thou hast accomplished them, sleepe againe vpon thy right side, and thou shalt beare the iniquitie of the house of Iudah fourtie dayes: I haue appointed thee a day for a yeere, euen a day for a yeere.
Ezekiel 4:7	Therefore thou shalt direct thy face towarde the siege of Ierusalem, and thine arme shalbe vncouered, and thou shalt prophesie against it.
Ezekiel 4:8	And beholde, I will lay bands vpon thee, and thou shalt not turne thee from one side to another, till thou hast ended the dayes of thy siege.
Ezekiel 4:9	Thou shalt take also vnto thee wheate, and barley, and beanes, and lentiles, and millet, and fitches, and put them in one vessell, and make thee bread thereof according to the nomber of the dayes, that thou shalt sleepe vpon thy side: euen three hundreth and ninetie dayes shalt thou eate thereof.
Ezekiel 4:10	And the meate, whereof thou shalt eate, shalbe by weight, euen twenty shekels a day: and from time to time shalt thou eate thereof.
Ezekiel 4:11	Thou shalt drinke also water by measure, euen the sixt part of an Hin: from time to time shalt thou drinke.
Ezekiel 4:12	And thou shalt eate it as barley cakes, and thou shalt bake it in the dongue that commeth out of man, in their sight.
Ezekiel 4:13	And the Lord said, So shall the children of Israel eate their defiled bread among the Gentiles, whither I will cast them.
Ezekiel 4:14	Then said I, Ah, Lord God, beholde, my soule hath not bene polluted: for from my youth vp, euen vnto this houre, I haue not eaten of a thing dead, or torne in pieces, neither came there any vncleane flesh in my mouth.
Ezekiel 4:15	Then he said vnto me, Loe, I haue giuen thee bullockes dongue for mans dongue, and thou shalt prepare thy bread therewith.
Ezekiel 4:16	Moreouer, he said vnto me, Sonne of man, beholde, I will breake the staffe of bread in Ierusalem, and they shall eate bread by weight, and with care, and they shall drinke water by measure, and with astonishment.
Ezekiel 4:17	Because that bread and water shall faile, they shalbe astonied one with another, and shall consume away for their iniquitie.
Ezekiel 5:1	And thou sonne of man, take thee a sharpe knife, or take thee a barbours rasor and cause it to passe vpon thine head, and vpon thy beard: then take thee balances to weigh, and deuide the heare.
Ezekiel 5:2	Thou shalt burne with fire the thirde part in the middes of the citie, when the dayes of the siege are fulfilled, and thou shalt take the other thirde part, and smite about it with a knife, and the last thirde part thou shalt scatter in the winde, and I will drawe out a sworde after them.
Ezekiel 5:3	Thou shalt also take thereof a fewe in nomber, and binde them in thy lappe.
Ezekiel 5:4	Then take of them againe and cast them into the middes of the fire, and burne them in the fire: for thereof shall a fire come foorth into all the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 5:5	Thus saith the Lord God, This is Ierusalem: I haue set it in the middes of the nations and countreyes, that are rounde about her.
Ezekiel 5:6	And she hath changed my iudgements into wickednes more then the nations, and my statutes more then the countreis, that are round about her: for they haue refused my iudgemets and my statutes, and they haue not walked in them.
Ezekiel 5:7	Therefore thus saith the Lord God, Because your multitude is greater then the nations that are rounde about you, and ye haue not walked in my statutes, neither haue ye kept my iudgements: no, ye haue not done according to the iudgements of the nations, that are rounde about you,
Ezekiel 5:8	Therefore thus saith the Lord God, Beholde, I, euen I come against thee, and will execute iudgement in the middes of thee, euen in the sight of the nations.
Ezekiel 5:9	And I will doe in thee, that I neuer did before, neither will do any more the like, because of all thine abominations.
Ezekiel 5:10	For in the middes of thee, the fathers shall eate their sonnes, and the sonnes shall eate their fathers, and I will execute iudgement in thee, and the whole remnant of thee will I scatter into all the windes.
Ezekiel 5:11	Wherefore, as I liue, saith the Lord God, Surely because thou hast defiled my Sanctuarie with all thy filthinesse, and with all thine abominations, therefore will I also destroy thee, neither shall mine eye spare thee, neither will I haue any pitie.
Ezekiel 5:12	The third part of thee shall die with the pestilence, and with famine shall they bee consumed in the middes of thee: and another third part shall fall by the sword round about thee: and I will scatter the last third part into all windes, and I will drawe out a sword after them.
Ezekiel 5:13	Thus shall mine anger bee accomplished, and I will cause my wrath to cease in them, and I will be comforted: and they shall knowe, that I the Lord haue spoke it in my zeale, when I haue accomplished my wrath in them.
Ezekiel 5:14	Moreouer, I will make thee waste, and abhorred among the nations, that are round about thee, and in the sight of all that passe by.
Ezekiel 5:15	So thou shalt bee a reproche and shame, a chastisement and an astonishment vnto the nations, that are rounde about thee, when I shall execute iudgements in thee, in anger and in wrath, and in sharpe rebukes: I the Lord haue spoken it.
Ezekiel 5:16	When I shall sende vpon them the euill arrowes of famine, which shalbe for their destruction, and which I will sende to destroy you: and I will encrease the famine vpon you, and wil breake your staffe of bread.
Ezekiel 5:17	So will I send vpon you famine, and euill beastes, and they shall spoyle thee, and pestilence and blood shall passe through thee, and I will bring the sworde vpon thee: I the Lord haue spoken it.
Ezekiel 6:1	Again the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 6:2	Sonne of man, Set thy face towardes the mountaines of Israel, and prophecie against them,
Ezekiel 6:3	And say, Ye mountaines of Israel, heare the worde of the Lord God: thus sayth the Lord God to the mountaines and to the hilles, to the riuers and to the valleis, Beholde, I, euen I will bring a sworde vpon you, and I will destroy your hie places:
Ezekiel 6:4	And your altars shalbe desolate, and your images of the sunne shalbe broken: and I will cast downe your slaine men before your idoles.
Ezekiel 6:5	And I will lay the dead carkeises of the children of Israel before their idoles, and I will scatter your bones round about your altars.
Ezekiel 6:6	In all your dwelling places the cities shalbe desolate, and the hie places shalbe laide waste, so that your altars shalbe made waste and desolate, and your idoles shalbe broken, and cease, and your images of the sunne shalbe cut in pieces, and your workes shalbe abolished.
Ezekiel 6:7	And the slaine shall fall in the middes of you, and ye shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 6:8	Yet will I leaue a remnant, that you may haue some that shall escape the sword among the nations, when you shalbe scattred through the countreyes.
Ezekiel 6:9	And they that escape of you, shall remember me among the nations, where they shalbe in captiuitie, because I am grieued for their whorish hearts, which haue departed from mee, and for their eyes, which haue gone a whoring after their idoles, and they shalbe displeased in them selues for the euils, which they haue committed in all their abominations.
Ezekiel 6:10	And they shall knowe that I am the Lord, and that I haue not saide in vaine, that I woulde doe this euill vnto them.
Ezekiel 6:11	Thus saith the Lord God, Smite with thine hand, and stretch forth with thy foote, and say, Alas, for all the wicked abominations of the house of Israel: for they shall fall by the sworde, by the famine, and by the pestilence.
Ezekiel 6:12	He that is farre off, shall dye of the pestilence, and he that is neere, shall fall by the sword, and hee that remaineth and is besieged, shall dye by the famine: thus will I accomplish my wrath vpon them.
Ezekiel 6:13	Then ye shall knowe, that I am ye Lord, when their slaine men shalbe among their idoles round about their altars, vpon euerie hie hill in al the toppes of the mountaines, and vnder euery greene tree, and vnder euerie thicke oke, which is the place where they did offer sweete sauour to all their idoles.
Ezekiel 6:14	So will I stretch mine hand vpon them, and make the lande waste, and desolate from the wildernes vnto Diblath in all their habitations, and they shall know, that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 7:1	Moreover the word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 7:2	Also thou sonne of man, thus saith the Lord God, An ende is come vnto the lande of Israel: the ende is come vpon the foure corners of the lande.
Ezekiel 7:3	Nowe is the ende come vpon thee, and I wil sende my wrath vpon thee, and will iudge thee according to thy wayes, and will laye vpon thee all thine abominations.
Ezekiel 7:4	Neither shall mine eye spare thee, neither will I haue pitie: but I will laye thy waies vpon thee: and thine abomination shall bee in the middes of thee, and yee shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 7:5	Thus saith the Lord God, Beholde, one euil, euen one euill is come.
Ezekiel 7:6	An ende is come, the end is come, it watched for thee: beholde, it is come.
Ezekiel 7:7	The morning is come vnto thee, that dwellest in the lande: the time is come, the day of trouble is neere, and not the sounding againe of the mountaines.
Ezekiel 7:8	Now I will shortly powre out my wrath vpon thee, and fulfil mine anger vpon thee: I will iudge thee according to thy wayes, and will lay vpon thee all thine abominations.
Ezekiel 7:9	Neither shall mine eie spare thee, neither will I haue pitie, but I will laye vpon thee according to thy wayes, and thine abominations shalbe in the middes of thee, and ye shall knowe that I am the Lord that smiteth.
Ezekiel 7:10	Beholde, the day, beholde, it is come: the morning is gone forth, the rod florisheth: pride hath budded.
Ezekiel 7:11	Crueltie is risen vp into a rod of wickednes: none of them shall remaine, nor of their riches, nor of any of theirs, neither shall there bee lamentation for them.
Ezekiel 7:12	The time is come, the day draweth neere: let not the byer reioyce, nor let him that selleth, mourne: for the wrath is vpon al the multitude thereof.
Ezekiel 7:13	For hee that selleth, shall not returne to that which is solde, although they were yet aliue: for the vision was vnto al the multitude thereof, and they returned not, neither doeth any encourage himselfe in the punishment of his life.
Ezekiel 7:14	They haue blowen the trumpet, and prepared all, but none goeth to the battel: for my wrath is vpon all the multitude thereof.
Ezekiel 7:15	The sword is without, and the pestilence, and the famine within: he that is in the field, shall dye with the sword, and he that is in the citie, famine and pestilence shall deuoure him.
Ezekiel 7:16	But they that flee away from them, shall escape, and shalbe in the mountaines, like the doues of the valleis: all they shall mourne, euery one for his iniquitie.
Ezekiel 7:17	All handes shalbe weake, and all knees shall fall away as water.
Ezekiel 7:18	They shall also girde them selues with sackecloth, and feare shall couer them, and shame shalbe vpon all faces, and baldnes vpon their heads.
Ezekiel 7:19	They shall cast their siluer in the streetes, and their golde shalbe cast farre off: their siluer and their gold can not deliuer them in the day of the wrath of the Lord: they shall not satisfie their soules, neither fill their bowels: for this ruine is for their iniquitie.
Ezekiel 7:20	He had also set the beautie of his ornament in maiestie: but they made images of their abominations, and of their idoles therein: therefore haue I set it farre from them.
Ezekiel 7:21	And I will giue it into the handes of the strangers to be spoyled, and to the wicked of the earth to be robbed, and they shall pollute it.
Ezekiel 7:22	My face will I turne also from them, and they shall pollute my secret place: for the destroyers shall enter into it, and defile it.
Ezekiel 7:23	Make a chaine: for the lande is full of the iudgement of blood, and the citie is full of crueltie.
Ezekiel 7:24	Wherefore I will bring the most wicked of the heathen, and they shall possesse their houses: I will also make the pompe of the mightie to cease, and their holie places shalbe defiled.
Ezekiel 7:25	When destruction commeth, they shall seeke peace, and shall not haue it.
Ezekiel 7:26	Calamitie shall come vpon calamitie, and rumour shall bee vpon rumour: then shall they seeke a vision of the Prophet: but the Lawe shall perish from the Priest, and counsel from the Ancient.
Ezekiel 7:27	The King shall mourne, and the prince shall be clothed with desolation, and the handes of the people in the land shall be troubled: I wil doe vnto them according to their waies, and according to their iudgements will I iudge them, and they shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 8:1	And in the sixt yere, in the sixt moneth, and in the fift day of the moneth, as I sate in mine house, and the Elders of Iudah sate before me, the hand of the Lord God fell there vpon me.
Ezekiel 8:2	Then I beheld, and lo, there was a likenesse, as the appearance of fire, to looke to, from his loynes downeward, and from his loynes vpward, as the appearance of brightnes, and like vnto amber.
Ezekiel 8:3	And he stretched out the likenes of an had, and tooke me by an hearie locke of mine head, and the Spirit lift me vp betweene the earth, and the heauen, and brought mee by a Diuine vision to Ierusalem, into the entry of ye inner gate that lieth toward the North, where remained the idole of indignation, which prouoked indignation.
Ezekiel 8:4	And beholde, the glorie of the God of Israel was there according to the vision, that I saw in the fielde.
Ezekiel 8:5	Then saide he vnto mee, Sonne of man, lift vp thine eyes nowe towarde the North. So I lift vp mine eyes towarde the North, and beholde, Northward, at the gate of the altar, this idole of indignation was in the entrie.
Ezekiel 8:6	He said furthermore vnto me, Sonne of man, seest thou not what they doe? euen the great abominations that the house of Israel committeth here to cause me to depart from my Sanctuarie? but yet turne thee and thou shalt see greater abominations.
Ezekiel 8:7	And he caused me to enter at the gate of the court: and when I looked, beholde, an hole was in the wall.
Ezekiel 8:8	Then said he vnto me, Sonne of man, digge nowe in the wall. And when I had digged in the wall, beholde, there was a doore.
Ezekiel 8:9	And he said vnto mee, Go in, and beholde the wicked abominations that they doe here.
Ezekiel 8:10	So I went in, and sawe, and beholde, there was euery similitude of creeping thinges and abominable beasts and all the idoles of the house of Israel painted vpon the wall round about.
Ezekiel 8:11	And there stoode before them seuentie men of the Ancients of the house of Israel, and in the middes of them stoode Iaazaniah, ye sonne of Shaphan, with euerie man his censour in his hand, and the vapour of the incense went vp like a cloude.
Ezekiel 8:12	Then saide hee vnto mee, Sonne of man, hast thou seene what the Ancients of the house of Israel do in the darke, euery one in the chamber of his imagerie? for they say, The Lord seeth vs not, the Lord hath forsaken the earth.
Ezekiel 8:13	Againe he saide also vnto me, Turne thee againe, and thou shalt see greater abominations that they doe.
Ezekiel 8:14	And he caused me to enter into the entrie of the gate of the Lords house, which was toward the North: and beholde there sate women mourning for Tammuz.
Ezekiel 8:15	Then saide hee vnto me, Hast thou seene this, O sonne of man? Turne thee againe, and thou shalt see greater abominations then these.
Ezekiel 8:16	And he caused me to enter into the inner court of the Lordes house, and beholde, at the doore of the Temple of the Lord, betweene the porche and the altar were about fiue and twentie men with their backs toward the Temple of the Lord, and their faces towarde the East, and they worshipped the sunne, towarde the East.
Ezekiel 8:17	The he said vnto me, Hast thou seene this, O sonne of man? Is it a small thing to the house of Iudah to commit these abominations which they do here? for they haue filled the land with crueltie, and haue returned to prouoke mee: and loe, they haue cast out stinke before their noses.
Ezekiel 8:18	Therefore will I also execute my wrath: mine eye shall not spare them, neither will I haue pitie, and though they crie in mine eares with a loude voyce, yet will I not heare them.
Ezekiel 9:1	He cryed also with a loude voyce in mine eares, saying, The visitations of the citie draw neere, and euery man hath a weapon in his hande to destroy it.
Ezekiel 9:2	And beholde, sixe men came by the way of the hie gate, which lieth towarde the North, and euery man a weapon in his hande to destroy it: and one man among them was clothed with linen, with a writers ynkhorne by his side, and they went in and stoode beside the brasen altar.
Ezekiel 9:3	And the glorie of the God of Israel was gone vp from ye Cherub, whereupon he was and stoode on the doore of the house, and he called to the man clothed with linnen, which had the writers ynkhorne by his side.
Ezekiel 9:4	And the Lord said vnto him, Goe through the middes of the citie, euen through the middes of Ierusalem and set a marke vpon the foreheads of them that mourne, and cry for all the abominations that be done in the middes thereof.
Ezekiel 9:5	And to the other he said, that I might heare, Goe ye after him through the citie, and smite: let your eye spare none, neither haue pitie.
Ezekiel 9:6	Destroy vtterly the old, and the yong, and the maides, and the children, and the women, but touch no man, vpon whome is the marke, and begin at my Sanctuarie. Then they began at the Ancient men, which were before the house.
Ezekiel 9:7	And he sayde vnto them, Defile the house, and fill the courtes with the slaine, then goe foorth: and they went out, and slewe them in the citie.
Ezekiel 9:8	Nowe when they had slaine them, and I had escaped, I fell downe vpon my face, and cryed, saying, Ah Lord God, wilt thou destroy all the residue of Israel, in powring out thy wrath vpon Ierusalem?
Ezekiel 9:9	Then saide he vnto me, The iniquitie of the house of Israel, and Iudah is exceeding great, so that the lande is full of blood, and the citie full of corrupt iudgement: for they say, The Lord hath forsaken the earth, and the Lord seeth vs not.
Ezekiel 9:10	As touching me also, mine eye shall not spare them, neither will I haue pitie, but will recompence their wayes vpon their heades.
Ezekiel 9:11	And beholde, the man clothed with linen which had the ynkhorne by his side, made report, and saide, Lord, I haue done as thou hast commanded me.
Ezekiel 10:1	And as I looked, beholde, in the firmament that was aboue the head of the Cherubims there appeared vpon them like vnto the similitude of a throne, as it were a saphir stone.
Ezekiel 10:2	And he spake vnto the man clothed with linen, and said, Go in betweene the wheeles, euen vnder the Cherub, and fill thine hands with coales of fire from betweene the Cherubims, and scatter the ouer the citie. And he went in in my sight.
Ezekiel 10:3	Now the Cherubims stood vpon the right side of the house, when the man went in, and the cloude filled the inner court.
Ezekiel 10:4	Then the glorie of the Lord went vp from the Cherub, and stoode ouer the doore of the house, and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was filled with the brightnesse of the Lordes glorie.
Ezekiel 10:5	And the sound of the Cherubims wings was heard into the vtter court, as the voyce of the Almightie God, when he speaketh.
Ezekiel 10:6	And when he had commanded the man clothed with linnen, saying, Take fire from betweene the wheeles, and from betweene ye Cherubims, then he went in and stood beside ye wheele.
Ezekiel 10:7	And one Cherub stretched forth his hand from betweene the Cherubims vnto the fire, that was betweene the Cherubims, and tooke thereof, and put it into the hands of him that was clothed with linnen: who tooke it and went out.
Ezekiel 10:8	And there appeared in the Cherubims, the likenesse of a mans hande vnder their wings.
Ezekiel 10:9	And when I looked vp, beholde, foure wheeles were beside the Cherubims, one wheele by one Cherub, and another wheele by another Cherub, and the appearance of the wheeles was as the colour of a Chrysolite stone.
Ezekiel 10:10	And their appearance (for they were all foure of one facion) was as if one wheele had bene in another wheele.
Ezekiel 10:11	When they went foorth, they went vpon their foure sides, and they returned not as they went: but to the place whither the first went, they went after it, and they turned not as they went.
Ezekiel 10:12	And their whole bodie, and their rings, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheeles were full of eyes round about, euen in the same foure wheeles.
Ezekiel 10:13	And the Cherub cryed to these wheeles in mine hearing, saying, O wheele.
Ezekiel 10:14	And euery beast had foure faces: the first face was the face of a Cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and the thirde the face of a lyon, and the fourth the face of an Egle.
Ezekiel 10:15	And the Cherubims were lifted vp: this is the beast that I sawe at the riuer Chebar.
Ezekiel 10:16	And when ye Cherubims went, the wheeles went by them: and when the Cherubims lift vp their wings to mount vp from the earth, the same wheeles also turned not from beside them.
Ezekiel 10:17	When the Cherubims stoode, they stood: and when they were lifted vp, they lifted the selues vp also: for the spirit of the beast was in them.
Ezekiel 10:18	Then the glorie of the Lord departed from aboue the doore of the house, and stoode vpon the Cherubims.
Ezekiel 10:19	And the Cherubims lift vp their wings, and mounted vp from the earth in my sight: when they went out, the wheeles also were besides them: and euery one stoode at the entrie of the gate of the Lordes House at the East side, and the glorie of the God of Israel was vpon them on hie.
Ezekiel 10:20	This is the beast that I sawe vnder the God of Israel by the riuer Chebar, and I knewe that they were the Cherubims.
Ezekiel 10:21	Euery one had foure faces, and euery one foure wings, and the likenesse of mans hands was vnder their wings.
Ezekiel 10:22	And the likenesse of their faces was the selfe same faces, which I sawe by the riuer Chebar, and the appearance of the Cherubims was ye selfe same, and they went euery one straight forwarde.
Ezekiel 11:1	Moreover, the Spirite lift me vp, and brought me vnto the East gate of the Lordes house, which lyeth Eastwarde, and beholde, at the entrie of the gate were fiue and twentie men: among whome I sawe Iaazaniah the sonne of Azur, and Pelatiah the sonne of Benaiah, the princes of the people.
Ezekiel 11:2	Then said he vnto me, Sonne of man, these are the men that imagine mischiefe, and deuise wicked counsell in this citie.
Ezekiel 11:3	For they say, It is not neere, let vs builde houses: this citie is the caldron, and wee be the flesh.
Ezekiel 11:4	Therefore prophesie against them, sonne of man, prophesie.
Ezekiel 11:5	And the Spirite of the Lord fell vpon me, and said vnto me, Speake, Thus saith the Lord, O ye house of Israel, this haue ye said, and I know that which riseth vp of your mindes.
Ezekiel 11:6	Many haue ye murthered in this citie, and ye haue filled the streets thereof with the slaine.
Ezekiel 11:7	Therefore thus saith the Lord God, They that ye haue slaine, and haue layed in the middes of it, they are the flesh, and this citie is the caldron, but I wil bring you foorth of the mids of it.
Ezekiel 11:8	Ye haue feared the sworde, and I wil bring a sworde vpon you, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 11:9	And I will bring you out of the middes thereof, and deliuer you into the hands of strangers, and will execute iudgements among you.
Ezekiel 11:10	Ye shall fall by the sworde, and I wil iudge you in the border of Israel, and ye shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 11:11	This citie shall not be your caldron, neyther shall ye be the flesh in the middes thereof, but I will iudge you in the border of Israel.
Ezekiel 11:12	And ye shall knowe that I am the Lord: for ye haue not walked in my statutes, neither executed my iudgements, but haue done after the maners of the heathen, that are round about you.
Ezekiel 11:13	And when I prophesied, Pelatiah the sonne of Benaiah dyed: then fell I downe vpon my face, and cryed with a loude voyce, and saide, Ah Lord God, wilt thou then vtterly destroy all the remnant of Israel?
Ezekiel 11:14	Againe the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 11:15	Sonne of man, thy brethren, euen thy brethren, the men of thy kindred, and all the house of Israel, wholy are they vnto whome the inhabitants of Ierusalem haue said, Depart ye farre from the Lord: for the lande is giuen vs in possession.
Ezekiel 11:16	Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord God, Although I haue cast them farre off among the heathen, and although I haue scattered them among the countreis, yet wil I be to them as a litle Sanctuarie in ye countreis where they shall come.
Ezekiel 11:17	Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord God, I will gather you againe from the people, and assemble you out of the countreis where ye haue bene scattered, and I will giue you ye land of Israel.
Ezekiel 11:18	And they shall come thither, and they shall take away all the idoles thereof, and all the abominations thereof from thence.
Ezekiel 11:19	And I will giue them one heart, and I will put a newe spirit within their bowels: and I will take the stonie heart out of their bodies, and will giue them an heart of flesh,
Ezekiel 11:20	That they may walke in my statutes, and keepe my iudgements, and execute them: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
Ezekiel 11:21	But vpon them, whose heart is towarde their idoles, and whose affection goeth after their abominations, I will lay their way vpon their owne heades, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 11:22	Then did the Cherubims lift vp their wings, and the wheeles besides them, and the glorie of the God of Israel was vpon them on hie.
Ezekiel 11:23	And the glorie of the Lord went vp from the middes of the citie, and stoode vpon the moutaine which is towarde the East side of the citie.
Ezekiel 11:24	Afterwarde the Spirite tooke me vp, and brought me in a vision by the Spirit of God into Caldea to them that were led away captiues: so the vision that I had seene, went vp from me.
Ezekiel 11:25	Then I declared vnto them that were led away captiues, all the things that the Lord had shewed me.
Ezekiel 12:1	The worde of the Lord also came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 12:2	Sonne of man, thou dwellest in the middes of a rebellious house, which haue eyes to see, and see not: they haue eares to heare, and heare not: for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 12:3	Therefore thou sonne of man, prepare thy stuffe to goe into captiuitie, and goe foorth by day in their sight: and thou shalt passe from thy place to another place in their sight, if it be possible that they may consider it: for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 12:4	Then shalt thou bring foorth thy stuffe by day in their sight as the stuffe of him that goeth into captiuitie: and thou shalt go forth at euen in their sight, as they that go foorth into captiuitie.
Ezekiel 12:5	Dig thou through the wall in their sight, and cary out thereby.
Ezekiel 12:6	In their sight shalt thou beare it vpon thy shoulders, and carie it foorth in the darke: thou shalt couer thy face that thou see not the earth: for I haue set thee as a signe vnto the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 12:7	And as I was commanded, so I brought forth my stuffe by day, as ye stuffe of one that goeth into captiuitie: and by night I digged through the wall with mine hand, and brought it forth in ye darke, and I bare it vpon my shoulder in their sight.
Ezekiel 12:8	And in the morning came the word of the Lord vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 12:9	Sonne of man, hath not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, sayde vnto thee, What doest thou?
Ezekiel 12:10	But say thou vnto them, Thus saith the Lord God, This burden concerneth the chiefe in Ierusalem, and all the house of Israel that are among them.
Ezekiel 12:11	Say, I am your signe: like as I haue done, so shall it be done vnto them: they shall goe into bondage and captiuitie.
Ezekiel 12:12	And the chiefest that is among them, shall beare vpon his shoulder in the darke, and shall goe forth: they shall digge through the wall, to cary out thereby: he shall couer his face, that he see not the ground with his eies.
Ezekiel 12:13	My net also will I spread vpon him, and he shall be taken in my net, and I will bring him to Babel to the lande of the Caldeans, yet shall he not see it, though he shall dye there.
Ezekiel 12:14	And I will scatter toward euerie winde all that are about him to helpe him, and all his garisons, and I will drawe out the sworde after them.
Ezekiel 12:15	And they shall knowe that I am the Lord, when I shall scatter them among the nations, and disperse them in the countreis.
Ezekiel 12:16	But I will leaue a litle nomber of them from the sworde, from the famine, and from the pestilence, that they may declare all these abominations among the heathen, where they come, and they shall knowe, that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 12:17	Moreouer, the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 12:18	Sonne of man, eate thy bread with trembling and drinke thy water with trouble, and with carefulnesse,
Ezekiel 12:19	And say vnto the people of the land, Thus saith the Lord God of the inhabitants of Ierusalem, and of the lande of Israel, They shall eate their bread with carefulnes, and drinke their water with desolation: for the lande shall bee desolate from her abundance because of the crueltie of them that dwell therein.
Ezekiel 12:20	And the cities that are inhabited, shall be left voyde, and the land shall be desolate, and yee shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 12:21	And the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 12:22	Sonne of man, what is that prouerbe that you haue in the land of Israel, saying, The dayes are prolonged and all visions faile?
Ezekiel 12:23	Tell them therefore, Thus sayeth the Lord God, I wil make this prouerbe to cease, and they shall no more vse it as a prouerbe in Israel: but say vnto them, The daies are at hand and the effect of euery vision.
Ezekiel 12:24	For no vision shall be any more in vaine, neither shall there bee any flattering diuination within the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 12:25	For I am the Lord: I wil speake, and that thing that I shall speake, shall come to passe: it shall be no more prolonged: for in your dayes, O rebellious house, will I saye the thing, and will performe it, sayeth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 12:26	Againe the word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 12:27	Sonne of man, beholde, they of the house of Israel say, The vision that hee seeth, is for many dayes to come, and he prophecieth of the times that are farre off.
Ezekiel 12:28	Therefore say vnto them, Thus sayth the Lord God, All my wordes shall no longer be delayed, but that thing which I haue spoken, shall be done, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 13:1	And the word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 13:2	Sonne of man, prophecie against the prophets of Israel, that prophecie, and say thou vnto them, that prophecie out of their owne hearts, Heare the worde of the Lord.
Ezekiel 13:3	Thus sayth the Lord God, Woe vnto the foolish Prophets that follow their owne spirit, and haue seene nothing.
Ezekiel 13:4	O Israel, thy Prophets are like the foxes in the waste places.
Ezekiel 13:5	Ye haue not risen vp in the gappes, neither made vp the hedge for ye house of Israel, to stand in the battel in the daye of the Lord.
Ezekiel 13:6	They haue seene vanitie, and lying diuination, saying, The Lord sayth it, and the Lord hath not sent them: and they haue made others to hope that they would cofirme the word of their prophecie.
Ezekiel 13:7	Haue ye not seene a vaine vision? and haue yee not spoken a lying diuination? ye say, The Lord sayth it, albeit I haue not spoken.
Ezekiel 13:8	Therefore thus sayth the Lord God, Because ye haue spoken vanytie and haue seene lyes, therefore beholde, I am agaynst you, sayth the Lord God,
Ezekiel 13:9	And mine hande shalbe vpon the Prophets that see vanity, and diuine lies: they shall not be in the assemblie of my people, neither shall they be written in the writing of the house of Israel, neither shall they enter into the land of Israel: and yee shall know that I am the Lord God.
Ezekiel 13:10	And therefore, because they haue deceiued my people, saying, Peace, and there was no peace: and one buylt vp a wall, and behold, the others daubed it with vntempered morter,
Ezekiel 13:11	Say vnto them which daube it with vntempered morter, that it shall fall: for there shall come a great showre, and I wil sende haylestones, which shall cause it to fall, and a stormie winde shall breake it.
Ezekiel 13:12	Lo, when the wall is fallen, shall it not bee sayd vnto you, Where is the daubing wherewith ye haue daubed it?
Ezekiel 13:13	Therefore thus sayth the Lord God, I will cause a stormie winde to breake foorth in my wrath, and a great showre shall bee in mine anger, and hailestones in mine indignation to consume it.
Ezekiel 13:14	So I wil destroy the wall that ye haue daubed with vntempered morter, and bring it downe to the ground, so that the fundation thereof shalbe discouered, and it shall fal, and ye shalbe consumed in the middes thereof, and ye shall know, that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 13:15	Thus will I accomplish my wrath vpon the wall, and vpon them that haue daubed it with vntempered morter, and will say vnto you, The wall is no more, neither the daubers thereof,
Ezekiel 13:16	To wit, the Prophets of Israel, which prophesie vpon Ierusalem, and see visions of peace for it, and there is no peace, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 13:17	Likewise thou sonne of man, set thy face against the daughters of thy people, which prophesie out of their owne heart: and prophesie thou against them, and say,
Ezekiel 13:18	Thus sayth the Lord God, Woe vnto the women that sowe pillowes vnder al arme holes, and make vailes vpon the head of euery one that standeth vp, to hunt soules: will yee hunt ye soules of my people, and will yee giue life to the soules that come vnto you?
Ezekiel 13:19	And will ye pollute me among my people for handfuls of barly, and for pieces of bread to slay the soules of them that shoulde not dye, and to giue life to the soules that should not liue in lying to my people, that heare your lies?
Ezekiel 13:20	Wherefore thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I will haue to do with your pillowes, wherewith yee hunt the soules to make them to flie, and I will teare them from your armes, and will let the soules goe, euen the soules, that ye hunt to make them to flie.
Ezekiel 13:21	Your vailes also will I teare, and deliuer my people out of your hande, and they shalbe no more in your hands to be hunted, and ye shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 13:22	Because with your lyes yee haue made the heart of the righteous sadde, whome I haue not made sad, and strengthened the hands of the wicked, that he should not returne from his wicked way, by promising him life,
Ezekiel 13:23	Therefore ye shall see no more vanitie, nor diuine diuinatios: for I wil deliuer my people out of your hand, and ye shall know that I am ye Lord.
Ezekiel 14:1	Then came certaine of the Elders of Israel vnto me, and sate before me.
Ezekiel 14:2	And the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 14:3	Sonne of man, these men haue set vp their idoles in their heart, and put the stumbling blocke of their iniquitie before their face: should I, being required, answere them?
Ezekiel 14:4	Therefore speake vnto them, and say vnto them, Thus saith the Lord God, Euery man of the house of Israel that setteth vp his idols in his heart, and putteth the stumbling blocke of his iniquitie before his face, and commeth to the Prophet, I the Lord will answere him that commeth, according to the multitude of his idoles:
Ezekiel 14:5	That I may take the house of Israel in their owne heart, because they are all departed from me through their idoles.
Ezekiel 14:6	Therfore say vnto the house of Israel, Thus sayth the Lord God, Returne, and withdraw your selues, and turne your faces from your idoles, and turne your faces from all your abominations.
Ezekiel 14:7	For euery one of the house of Israel, or of the stranger that soiourneth in Israel, which departeth from mee, and setteth vp his idoles in his heart, and putteth the stumbling blocke of his iniquitie before his face, and commeth to a Prophet, for to inquire of him for me, I the Lord will answere him for my selfe,
Ezekiel 14:8	And I will set my face against that man, and will make him an example and prouerbe, and I will cut him off from the middes of my people, and ye shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 14:9	And if the Prophet be deceiued, when hee hath spoken a thing, I the Lord haue deceiued that Prophet, and I will stretch out mine hande vpon him, and will destroy him from the middes of my people of Israel.
Ezekiel 14:10	And they shall beare their punishment: the punishment of the Prophet shall bee euen as the punishment of him that asketh,
Ezekiel 14:11	That the house of Israel may go no more astray from mee, neither bee polluted any more with all their transgressions, but that they may be my people, and I may be their God, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 14:12	The worde of the Lord came againe vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 14:13	Sonne of man, when ye land sinneth against me by committing a trespasse, then will I stretch out mine hand vpon it, and will breake the staffe of the bread thereof, and will send famine vpon it, and I will destroy man and beast forth of it.
Ezekiel 14:14	Though these three men Noah, Daniel, and Iob were among them, they shoulde deliuer but their owne soules by their righteousnes, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 14:15	If I bring noysome beastes into the lande and they spoyle it, so that it bee desolate, that no man may passe through, because of beastes,
Ezekiel 14:16	Though these three men were in the mids thereof, As I liue, sayth the Lord God, they shall saue neither sonnes nor daughters: they onely shalbe deliuered, but the land shall be waste.
Ezekiel 14:17	Or if I bring a sworde vpon this land, and say, Sword, go through the land, so that I destroy man and beast out of it,
Ezekiel 14:18	Though these three men were in the mids thereof, As I liue, sayth the Lord God, they shall deliuer neither sonnes nor daughters, but they onely shall be deliuered themselues.
Ezekiel 14:19	Or if I send a pestilence into this land, and powre out my wrath vpon it in blood, to destroy out of it man and beast,
Ezekiel 14:20	And though Noah, Daniel and Iob were in the middes of it, As I liue, sayth the Lord God, they shall deliuer neither sonne nor daughter: they shall but deliuer their owne soules by their righteousnes.
Ezekiel 14:21	For thus saith the Lord God, Howe much more when I sende my foure sore iudgements vpon Ierusalem, euen the sworde, and famine, and the noysome beast and pestilence, to destroy man and beast out of it?
Ezekiel 14:22	Yet beholde, therein shalbe left a remnant of them that shalbe caryed away both sonnes and daughters: behold, they shall come forth vnto you, and ye shall see their way, and their enterprises: and ye shall be comforted, concerning the euill that I haue brought vpon Ierusalem, euen concerning al that I haue brought vpon it.
Ezekiel 14:23	And they shall comfort you, when yee see their way and their enterprises: and ye shall know, that I haue not done without cause all that I haue done in it, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 15:1	And thee word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 15:2	Sonne of man, what commeth of the vine tree aboue all other trees? and of the vine braunch, which is among the trees of ye forest?
Ezekiel 15:3	Shall wood bee taken thereof to doe any worke? or wil men take a pin of it to hang any vessel thereon?
Ezekiel 15:4	Behold, it is cast in the fire to be consumed: the fire consumeth both the endes of it, and the middes of it is burnt. Is it meete for any worke?
Ezekiel 15:5	Behold, when it was whole, it was meete for no worke: how much lesse shall it bee meete for any worke, when the fire hath consumed it, and it is burnt?
Ezekiel 15:6	Therefore thus sayth the Lord God, As the vine tree, that is among the trees of the forest, which I haue giuen to the fire to be consumed, so will I giue the inhabitants of Ierusalem.
Ezekiel 15:7	And I will set my face against them: they shall go out from one fire, and another fire shall consume them: and ye shall know, that I am the Lord, when I set my face against them,
Ezekiel 15:8	And when I make the lande waste, because they haue greatly offended, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 16:1	Again, the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 16:2	Sonne of man, cause Ierusalem to knowe her abominations,
Ezekiel 16:3	And say, Thus saith the Lord God vnto Ierusalem, Thine habitation and thy kindred is of the land of Canaan: thy father was an Amorite, and thy mother an Hittite.
Ezekiel 16:4	And in thy natiuitie whe thou wast borne, thy nauell was not cut: thou wast not washed in water to soften thee: thou wast not salted with salt, nor swadled in cloutes.
Ezekiel 16:5	None eye pitied thee to do any of these vnto thee, for to haue compassion vpon thee, but thou wast cast out in the open fielde to the contempt of thy person in ye day that thou wast borne.
Ezekiel 16:6	And when I passed by thee, I saw thee polluted in thine owne blood, and I said vnto thee, whe thou wast in thy blood, Thou shalt liue: euen when thou wast in thy blood, I saide vnto thee, Thou shalt liue.
Ezekiel 16:7	I haue caused thee to multiplie as the bud of the fielde, and thou hast increased and waxen great, and thou hast gotten excellent ornaments: thy breastes are facioned, thine heare is growen, where as thou wast naked and bare.
Ezekiel 16:8	Nowe when I passed by thee, and looked vpon thee, beholde, thy time was as the time of loue, and I spred my skirtes ouer thee, and couered thy filthines: yea, I sware vnto thee, and entred into a couenant with thee, saith the Lord God, and thou becamest mine.
Ezekiel 16:9	Then washed I thee with water: yea, I washed away thy blood from thee, and I anointed thee with oyle.
Ezekiel 16:10	I clothed thee also with broydred worke, and shod thee with badgers skin: and I girded thee about with fine linen, and I couered thee with silke.
Ezekiel 16:11	I decked thee also with ornaments, and I put bracelets vpon thine handes, and a chaine on thy necke.
Ezekiel 16:12	And I put a frontlet vpon thy face, and earings in thine eares, and a beautifull crowne vpon thine head.
Ezekiel 16:13	Thus wast thou deckt with gold and siluer, and thy rayment was of fine linen, and silke, and broydred worke: thou didest eate fine floure, and honie and oyle, and thou wast very beautifull, and thou didest grow vp into a kingdome.
Ezekiel 16:14	And thy name was spred among the heathen for thy beautie: for it was perfite through my beautie which I had set vpon thee, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 16:15	Nowe thou didest trust in thine owne beautie, and playedst the harlot, because of thy renowne, and hast powred out thy fornications on euery one that passed by, thy desire was to him.
Ezekiel 16:16	And thou didest take thy garments, and deckedst thine hie places with diuers colours, and playedst the harlot thereupon: the like thinges shall not come, neither hath any done so.
Ezekiel 16:17	Thou hast also taken thy faire iewels made of my golde and of my siluer, which I had giuen thee, and madest to thy selfe images of men, and didest commit whoredome with them,
Ezekiel 16:18	And tookest thy broydred garments, and coueredst them: and thou hast set mine oyle and my perfume before them.
Ezekiel 16:19	My meate also, which I gaue thee, as fine floure, oyle, and honie, wherewith I fedde thee, thou hast euen set it before them for a sweete sauour: thus it was, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 16:20	Moreouer thou hast taken thy sonnes and thy daughters, whome thou hast borne vnto me, and these hast thou sacrificed vnto them, to be deuoured: is this thy whoredome a small matter?
Ezekiel 16:21	That thou hast slaine my children, and deliuered them to cause them to passe through fire for them?
Ezekiel 16:22	And in all thine abominations and whoredomes thou hast not remembred the dayes of thy youth, when thou wast naked and bare, and wast polluted in thy blood.
Ezekiel 16:23	And beside all thy wickednes (wo, wo vnto thee, saith the Lord God)
Ezekiel 16:24	Thou hast also built vnto thee an hie place, and hast made thee an hie place in euery streete.
Ezekiel 16:25	Thou hast built thine hie place at euery corner of the way, and hast made thy beautie to be abhorred: thou hast opened thy feete to euery one that passed by, and multiplied thy whoredome.
Ezekiel 16:26	Thou hast also committed fornication with the Egyptians thy neighbours, which haue great members, and hast encreased thy whoredome, to prouoke me.
Ezekiel 16:27	Beholde, therefore I did stretche out mine hand ouer thee, and will diminish thine ordinarie, and deliuer thee vnto the will of them that hate thee, euen to the daughters of the Philistims, which are ashamed of thy wicked way.
Ezekiel 16:28	Thou hast played the whore also with the Assyrians, because thou wast insaciable: yea, thou hast played the harlot with them, and yet couldest not be satisfied.
Ezekiel 16:29	Thou hast moreouer multiplied thy fornication from the land of Canaan vnto Caldea, and yet thou wast not satisfied herewith.
Ezekiel 16:30	Howe weake is thine heart, saith the Lord God, seeing thou doest all these thinges, euen the worke of a presumptuous whorish woman?
Ezekiel 16:31	In that thou buildest thine hie place in the corner of euery way, and makest thine hie place in euery streete, and hast not bene as an harlot that despiseth a reward,
Ezekiel 16:32	But as a wife that playeth the harlot, and taketh others for her husband:
Ezekiel 16:33	They giue giftes to all other whores, but thou giuest giftes vnto all thy louers, and rewardest them, that they may come vnto thee on euery side for thy fornication.
Ezekiel 16:34	And the contrary is in thee from other women in thy fornications, neither the like fornication shall be after thee: for in that thou giuest a rewarde, and no reward is giuen vnto thee, therefore thou art contrary.
Ezekiel 16:35	Wherefore, O harlot, heare the worde of the Lord.
Ezekiel 16:36	Thus sayeth the Lord God, Because thy shame was powred out, and thy filthinesse discouered through thy fornications with thy louers, and with all the idoles of thine abominations, and by the blood of thy children, which thou didest offer vnto them,
Ezekiel 16:37	Beholde, therefore I wil gather all thy louers, with whom thou hast taken pleasure, and all them that thou hast loued, with al them that thou hast hated: I will euen gather them round about against thee, and will discouer thy filthines vnto them, that they may see all thy filthines.
Ezekiel 16:38	And I wil iudge thee after ye maner of them that are harlots, and of them that shead blood, and I wil giue thee the blood of wrath and ielousie.
Ezekiel 16:39	I will also giue thee into their handes, and they shall destroy thine hie place, and shall breake downe thine hie places. they shall strippe thee also out of thy clothes, and shall take thy faire iewels, and leaue thee naked and bare.
Ezekiel 16:40	They shall also bring vp a company against thee, and they shall stone thee with stones, and thrust thee through with their swordes.
Ezekiel 16:41	And they shall burne vp thine houses with fire, and execute iudgements vpon thee in the sight of many women: and I will cause thee to cease from playing the harlot, and thou shalt giue no reward any more.
Ezekiel 16:42	So will I make my wrath towarde thee to rest, and my ielousie shall depart from thee, and I will cease and be no more angrie.
Ezekiel 16:43	Because thou hast not remembred the dayes of thy youth, but hast prouoked me with all these things, behold, therefore I also haue brought thy way vpon thine head, sayeth the Lord God: yet hast not thou had consideration of all thine abominations.
Ezekiel 16:44	Beholde, all that vse prouerbes, shall vse this prouerbe against thee, saying, As is the mother, so is her daughter.
Ezekiel 16:45	Thou art thy mothers daughter, that hath cast off her husband and her children, and thou art the sister of thy sisters, which forsooke their husbands and their children: your mother is an Hittite, and your father an Amorite.
Ezekiel 16:46	And thine elder sister is Samaria, and her daughters, that dwell at thy left hand, and thy yong sister, that dwelleth at thy right hand, is Sodom, and her daughters.
Ezekiel 16:47	Yet hast thou not walked after their wayes, nor done after their abominations: but as it had bene a very little thing, thou wast corrupted more then they in all thy wayes.
Ezekiel 16:48	As I liue, saith the Lord God, Sodom thy sister hath not done, neither shee nor her daughters, as thou hast done and thy daughters.
Ezekiel 16:49	Beholde, this was the iniquitie of thy sister Sodom, Pride, fulnesse of bread, and aboundance of idlenesse was in her, and in her daughters: neither did shee strengthen the hande of the poore and needie.
Ezekiel 16:50	But they were hautie, and committed abomination before mee: therefore I tooke them away, as pleased me.
Ezekiel 16:51	Neither hath Samaria committed halfe of thy sinnes, but thou hast exceeded them in thine abominations, and hast iustified thy sisters in all thine abominations, which thou hast done.
Ezekiel 16:52	Therefore thou which hast iustified thy sisters, beare thine owne shame for thy sinnes, that thou hast committed more abominable then they which are more righteous then thou art: be thou therefore confounded also, and beare thy shame, seeing that thou hast iustified thy sisters.
Ezekiel 16:53	Therefore I will bring againe their captiuitie with the captiuitie of Sodom, and her daughters, and with the captiuitie of Samaria, and her daughters: euen the captiuitie of thy captiues in the middes of them,
Ezekiel 16:54	That thou mayest beare thine owne shame, and mayest bee confounded in all that thou hast done, in that thou hast comforted them.
Ezekiel 16:55	And thy sister Sodom and her daughters shall returne to their former state: Samaria also and her daughters shall returne to their former state, when thou and thy daughters shall returne to your former state.
Ezekiel 16:56	For thy sister Sodom was not heard of by thy report in the day of thy pride,
Ezekiel 16:57	Before thy wickednes was discouered, as in that same time of the reproch of the daughters of Aram, and of all the daughters of the Philistims round about her which despise thee on all sides.
Ezekiel 16:58	Thou hast borne therefore thy wickednesse and thine abomination, saith the Lord.
Ezekiel 16:59	For thus saith the Lord God, I might euen deale with thee, as thou hast done: when thou didest despise the othe, in breaking the couenant.
Ezekiel 16:60	Neuerthelesse, I wil remember my couenant made with thee in ye dayes of thy youth, and I wil confirme vnto thee an euerlasting couenant.
Ezekiel 16:61	Then thou shalt remember thy wayes, and be ashamed, when thou shalt receiue thy sisters, both thy elder and thy yonger, and I will giue them vnto thee for daughters, but not by thy couenat.
Ezekiel 16:62	And I wil establish my couenant with thee, and thou shalt knowe that I am the Lord,
Ezekiel 16:63	That thou mayest remember, and be ashamed, and neuer open thy mouth any more: because of thy shame when I am pacified toward thee, for all that thou hast done, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 17:1	And the worde of the Lord came vnto mee, saying,
Ezekiel 17:2	Sonne of man, put foorth a parable and speake a prouerbe vnto the house of Israel,
Ezekiel 17:3	And say, Thus saith the Lord God, The great eagle with great wings, and long wings, and ful of fethers, which had diuers colours, came vnto Lebanon, and tooke the highest branch of the cedar,
Ezekiel 17:4	And brake off the toppe of his twigge, and caried it into the land of marchants, and set it in a citie of marchants.
Ezekiel 17:5	Hee tooke also of the seede of the lande, and planted it in a fruitfull ground: hee placed it by great waters, and set it as a willowe tree.
Ezekiel 17:6	And it budded vp, and was like a spreading vine of low stature, whose branches turned toward it, and the rootes thereof were vnder it: so it became a vine, and it brought foorth branches, and shot foorth buds.
Ezekiel 17:7	There was also another great eagle with great wings and many feathers, and beholde, this vine did turne her rootes toward it, and spred foorth her branches toward it, that she might water it by the trenches of her plantation.
Ezekiel 17:8	It was planted in a good soyle by great waters, that it should bring forth branches, and beare fruite, and be an excellent vine.
Ezekiel 17:9	Say thou, Thus saith the Lord God, Shall it prosper? shall he not pull vp the rootes thereof, and destroy the fruite thereof, and cause them to drie? all the leaues of her bud shall wither without great power, or many people, to plucke it vp by the rootes thereof.
Ezekiel 17:10	Beholde, it was planted: but shall it prosper? shall it not be dried vp, and wither? when the East winde shall touch it, it shall wither in the trenches, where it grewe.
Ezekiel 17:11	Moreouer, the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 17:12	Say now to this rebellious house, Know ye not, what these things meane? tell them, Behold, the King of Babel is come to Ierusalem, and hath taken the King thereof, and the princes thereof, and led them with him to Babel,
Ezekiel 17:13	And hath taken one of the Kings seede, and made a couenant with him, and hath taken an othe of him: he hath also taken the princes of the land,
Ezekiel 17:14	That the kingdome might be in subiection, and not lift it selfe vp, but keepe their couenant, and stand to it.
Ezekiel 17:15	But he rebelled against him, and sent his ambassadours into Egypt, that they might giue him horses, and much people: shall hee prosper? shall he escape, that doeth such things? or shall he breake the couenant, and be deliuered?
Ezekiel 17:16	As I liue, saith the Lord God, he shall die in the middes of Babel, in the place of the King, that had made him King, whose othe he despised, and whose couenant made with him, he brake.
Ezekiel 17:17	Neither shall Pharaoh with his mightie hoste, and great multitude of people, mainteine him in the warre, when they haue cast vp mounts, and builded ramparts to destroy many persons.
Ezekiel 17:18	For he hath despised the othe, and broken ye couenant (yet lo, he had giuen his hand) because he hath done all these things, he shall not escape.
Ezekiel 17:19	Therefore, thus sayth the Lord God, As I liue, I wil surely bring mine othe that he hath despised, and my couenant that he hath broken vpon his owne head.
Ezekiel 17:20	And I wil spread my net vpon him, and he shalbe taken in my net, and I wil bring him to Babel, and will enter into iudgement with him there for his trespas that he hath committed against me.
Ezekiel 17:21	And all that flee from him with all his hoste, shall fall by the sword, and they that remaine, shalbe scattered towarde all the windes: and ye shall know that I the Lord haue spoken it.
Ezekiel 17:22	Thus saith the Lord God, I wil also take off the top of this hie cedar, and wil set it, and cut off the top of the tender plant thereof, and I wil plant it vpon an hie mountaine and great.
Ezekiel 17:23	Euen in the hie mountaine of Israel will I plant it: and it shall bring forth boughes and beare fruite, and be an excellent cedar, and vnder it shall remaine all birds, and euery foule shall dwell in the shadow of the branches thereof.
Ezekiel 17:24	And all the trees of the fielde shall knowe that I the Lord haue brought downe the hie tree, and exalted the lowe tree, that I haue dried vp the greene tree, and made the drie tree to florish: I the Lord haue spoken it, and haue done it.
Ezekiel 18:1	The worde of the Lord came vnto me againe, saying,
Ezekiel 18:2	What meane ye that ye speake this prouerbe, concerning the land of Israel, saying, The fathers haue eaten sowre grapes, and the childrens teeth are set on edge?
Ezekiel 18:3	As I liue, sayth the Lord God, ye shall vse this prouerbe no more in Israel.
Ezekiel 18:4	Beholde, all soules are mine, both the soule of the father, and also the soule of the sonne are mine: the soule that sinneth, it shall die.
Ezekiel 18:5	But if a man be iust, and doe that which is lawfull, and right,
Ezekiel 18:6	And hath not eaten vpon the mountaines, neither hath lift vp his eyes to the idoles of the house of Israel, neither hath defiled his neighbours wife, neither hath lyen with a menstruous woman,
Ezekiel 18:7	Neither hath oppressed any, but hath restored the pledge to his dettour: he that hath spoyled none by violence, but hath giuen his bread to the hungry, and hath couered the naked with a garment,
Ezekiel 18:8	And hath not giuen foorth vpon vsurie, neither hath taken any increase, but hath withdrawen his hand from iniquitie, and hath executed true iudgement betweene man and man,
Ezekiel 18:9	And hath walked in my statutes, and hath kept my iudgements to deale truely, he is iust, he shall surely liue, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 18:10	If he beget a sonne, that is a thiefe, or a sheader of blood, if he do any one of these things,
Ezekiel 18:11	Though he doe not all these things, but either hath eaten vpon the mountaines, or defiled his neighbours wife,
Ezekiel 18:12	Or hath oppressed the poore and needy, or hath spoyled by violence, or hath not restored the pledge, or hath lift vp his eyes vnto the idoles, or hath committed abomination,
Ezekiel 18:13	Or hath giuen forth vpon vsurie, or hath taken increase, shall he liue? he shall not liue: seeing he hath done all these abominations, he shall die the death, and his blood shall be vpon him.
Ezekiel 18:14	But if he beget a sonne, that seeth all his fathers sinnes, which he hath done, and feareth, neither doeth such like,
Ezekiel 18:15	That hath not eaten vpon the mountaines, neither hath lift vp his eyes to the idols of ye house of Israel, nor hath defiled his neighbours wife,
Ezekiel 18:16	Neither hath oppressed any, nor hath withholden the pledge, neither hath spoyled by violence, but hath giuen his bread to the hungry, and hath couered the naked with a garment,
Ezekiel 18:17	Neither hath withdrawen his hand from the afflicted, nor receiued vsurie nor increase, but hath executed my iudgements, and hath walked in my statutes, he shall not die in the iniquitie of his father, but he shall surely liue.
Ezekiel 18:18	His father, because he cruelly oppressed and spoyled his brother by violence, and hath not done good among his people, loe, euen he dyeth in his iniquitie.
Ezekiel 18:19	Yet say ye, Wherefore shall not the sonne beare the iniquitie of the father? because ye sonne hath executed iudgement and iustice, and hath kept all my statutes, and done them, he shall surely liue,
Ezekiel 18:20	The same soule that sinneth, shall die: the sonne shall not beare the iniquitie of the father, neither shall the father beare the iniquitie of the sonne, but the righteousnes of the righteous shall be vpon him, and the wickednesse of the wicked shall be vpon him selfe.
Ezekiel 18:21	But if the wicked will returne from all his sinnes that he hath committed, and keepe all my statutes, and doe that which is lawfull and right, he shall surely liue, and shall not die.
Ezekiel 18:22	All his transgressions that he hath committed, they shall not be mentioned vnto him, but in his righteousnes that he hath done, he shall liue.
Ezekiel 18:23	Haue I any desire that the wicked should die, sayth the Lord God? or shall he not liue, if he returne from his wayes?
Ezekiel 18:24	But if the righteous turne away from his righteousnes, and commit iniquitie, and doe according to all the abominations, that the wicked man doeth, shall he liue? all his righteousnes that he hath done, shall not be mentioned: but in his transgression that he hath committed, and in his sinne that he hath sinned, in them shall he die.
Ezekiel 18:25	Yet ye say, The way of the Lord is not equall: heare now, O house of Israel. Is not my way equall? or are not your wayes vnequall?
Ezekiel 18:26	For when a righteous man turneth away from his righteousnes, and committeth iniquitie, he shall euen die for the same, he shall euen die for his iniquitie, that he hath done.
Ezekiel 18:27	Againe when the wicked turneth away from his wickednes that he hath committed, and doeth that which is lawfull and right, he shall saue his soule aliue.
Ezekiel 18:28	Because he considereth, and turneth away from all his transgressions that hee hath committed, he shall surely liue and shall not die.
Ezekiel 18:29	Yet saith ye house of Israel, The way of the Lord is not equall. O house of Israel, are not my wayes equall? or are not your wayes vnequall?
Ezekiel 18:30	Therefore I will iudge you, O house of Israel, euery one according to his wayes, sayth the Lord God: returne therefore and cause others to turne away from all your transgressions: so iniquitie shall not be your destruction.
Ezekiel 18:31	Cast away from you all your transgressions, whereby ye haue transgressed, and make you a newe heart and a new spirit: for why will ye die, O house of Israel?
Ezekiel 18:32	For I desire not the death of him that dyeth, sayth the Lord God: cause therefore one another to returne, and liue ye.
Ezekiel 19:1	Thou also, take vp a lamentation for the princes of Israel,
Ezekiel 19:2	And say, Wherefore lay thy mother as a lyonesse among the lyons? she nourished her yong ones among the lyons whelps,
Ezekiel 19:3	And she brought vp one of her whelps, and it became a lyon, and it learned to catch the praye, and it deuoured men.
Ezekiel 19:4	The nations also heard of him, and he was taken in their nets, and they brought him in chaines vnto the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel 19:5	Nowe when she sawe, that she had waited and her hope was lost, she tooke another of her whelps, and made him a lyon.
Ezekiel 19:6	Which went among the lyons, and became a lyon, and learned to catch the praye, and he deuoured men.
Ezekiel 19:7	And he knew their widowes, and he destroyed their cities, and the land was wasted, and all that was therein by the noyse of his roaring.
Ezekiel 19:8	Then the nations set against him on euery side of the countreys, and laide their nets for him: so he was taken in their pit.
Ezekiel 19:9	And they put him in prison and in chaines, and brought him to the King of Babel, and they put him in holdes, that his voyce should no more be heard vpon the mountaines of Israel.
Ezekiel 19:10	Thy mother is like a vine in thy blood, planted by the waters: she brought foorth fruite and branches by the abundant waters,
Ezekiel 19:11	And she had strong rods for the scepters of them that beare rule, and her stature was exalted among the branches, and she appeared in her height with the multitude of her branches.
Ezekiel 19:12	But she was plucked vp in wrath: she was cast downe to the ground, and the East winde dried vp her fruite: her branches were broken, and withered: as for the rod of her strength, the fire consumed it.
Ezekiel 19:13	And now she is planted in the wildernes in a drie and thirstie ground.
Ezekiel 19:14	And fire is gone out of a rod of her branches, which hath deuoured her fruite, so that she hath no strong rod to be a scepter to rule: this is a lamentation and shalbe for a lamentation.
Ezekiel 20:1	And in the seuenth yeere, in the fift moneth, the tenth day of the moneth, came certaine of the elders of Israel to enquire of the Lord, and sate before me.
Ezekiel 20:2	Then came the worde of the Lord vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 20:3	Sonne of man, speake vnto the Elders of Israel, and say vnto them, Thus saith the Lord God, Are ye come to enquire of me? as I liue, sayth the Lord God, when I am asked, I wil not answer you.
Ezekiel 20:4	Wilt thou iudge them, sonne of man? wilt thou iudge them? cause them to vnderstand the abominations of their fathers,
Ezekiel 20:5	And say vnto them, Thus saith the Lord God, In the day when I chose Israel, and lift vp mine hand vnto the seede of the house of Iaakob, and made my selfe knowen vnto them in the land of Egypt, when I lift vp mine hand vnto them, and sayd, I am the Lord your God,
Ezekiel 20:6	In the day that I lift vp mine hand vnto them to bring them forth of the land of Egypt, into a land that I had prouided for them, flowing with milke and hony which is pleasant among all lands,
Ezekiel 20:7	Then sayd I vnto them, Let euery man cast away the abominations of his eyes, and defile not your selues with the idols of Egypt: for I am the Lord your God.
Ezekiel 20:8	But they rebelled against me, and would not heare me: for none cast away the abominations of their eyes, neither did they forsake the idoles of Egypt: then I thought to powre out mine indignation vpon them, and to accomplish my wrath against them in the mids of the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel 20:9	But I had respect to my Name, that it should not be polluted before the heathen, among whome they were, and in whose sight I made my selfe knowen vnto them in bringing them forth of the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel 20:10	Nowe I caried them out of the land of Egypt, and brought them into the wildernes.
Ezekiel 20:11	And I gaue them my statutes, and declared my iudgements vnto them, which if a man doe, he shall liue in them.
Ezekiel 20:12	Moreouer I gaue them also my Sabbaths to be a signe betweene me and them, that they might knowe that I am the Lord, that sanctifie them.
Ezekiel 20:13	But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wildernes: they walked not in my statutes, and they cast away my iudgements, which if a man doe, he shall liue in them, and my Sabbaths haue they greatly polluted: then I thought to powre out mine indignation vpon them in the wildernes to consume them,
Ezekiel 20:14	But I had respect to my Name, that it shoulde not bee polluted before the heathen in whose sight I brought them out.
Ezekiel 20:15	Yet neuerthelesse, I lift vp mine hande vnto them in the wildernes that I would not bring them into the lande, which I had giuen them, flowing with milke and hony, which was pleasant aboue all landes,
Ezekiel 20:16	Because they cast away my iudgments, and walked not in my statutes, but haue polluted my Sabbaths: for their heart went after their idoles.
Ezekiel 20:17	Neuerthelesse, mine eye spared them, that I would not destroye them, neither would I consume them in the wildernes.
Ezekiel 20:18	But I said vnto their children in the wildernes, Walke ye not in the ordinances of your fathers, neither obserue their maners, nor defile your selues with their idoles.
Ezekiel 20:19	I am the Lord your God: walke in my statutes, and keepe my iudgements and doe them,
Ezekiel 20:20	And sanctifie my Sabbaths, and they shall bee a signe betweene mee and you, that ye may knowe that I am the Lord your God.
Ezekiel 20:21	Notwithstanding the children rebelled against mee: they walked not in my statutes, nor kept my iudgements to doe them, which if a man doe, hee shall liue in them, but they polluted my Sabbaths: then I thought to powre out mine indignation vpon them, and to accomplish my wrath against them in the wildernes.
Ezekiel 20:22	Neuerthelesse I withdrew mine hand and had respect to my Name that it should not be polluted before the heathen, in whose sight I brought them foorth.
Ezekiel 20:23	Yet I lift vp mine hande vnto them in the wildernes, that I would scatter them among the heathen, and disperse them through the countreys,
Ezekiel 20:24	Because they had not executed my iudgements, but had cast away my statutes and had polluted my Sabbaths, and their eyes were after their fathers idoles.
Ezekiel 20:25	Wherefore I gaue them also statutes that were not good, and iudgements, wherein they should not liue.
Ezekiel 20:26	And I polluted them in their owne giftes in that they caused to passe by the fire all that first openeth ye wombe, that I might destroy them, to the ende, that they might know that I am ye Lord.
Ezekiel 20:27	Therefore, sonne of man, speake vnto the house of Israel, and say vnto them, Thus saith the Lord God, Yet in this your fathers haue blasphemed me, though they had before grieuously transgressed against me.
Ezekiel 20:28	For when I had brought them into the land, for the which I lifted vp mine hand to giue it to them, then they saw euery hie hill, and all the thicke trees, and they offred there their sacrifices, and there they presented their offering of prouocation: there also they made their sweete sauour, and powred out there their drinke offerings.
Ezekiel 20:29	Then I saide vnto them, What is the hie place whereunto ye goe? And the name thereof was called Bamah vnto this day.
Ezekiel 20:30	Wherefore, say vnto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord God, Are ye not polluted after the maner of your fathers? and commit ye not whoredome after their abominations?
Ezekiel 20:31	For when you offer your giftes, and make your sonnes to passe through the fire, you pollute your selues with all your idoles vnto this day: shall I answere you when I am asked, O house of Israel? As I liue, saith the Lord God, I wil not answere you when I am asked.
Ezekiel 20:32	Neither shall that be done that commeth into your minde: for ye say, We wil be as the heathen, and as the families of the countreys, and serue wood, and stone.
Ezekiel 20:33	As I liue, saith the Lord God, I will surely rule you with a mightie hand, and with a stretched out arme, and in my wrath powred out,
Ezekiel 20:34	And will bring you from the people, and will gather you out of the countreys, wherein ye are scattered, with a mighty hand, and with a stretched out arme, and in my wrath powred out,
Ezekiel 20:35	And I will bring you into the wildernes of the people, and there wil I pleade with you face to face.
Ezekiel 20:36	Like as I pleaded with your fathers in the wildernes of the lande of Egypt, so will I pleade with you, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 20:37	And I wil cause you to passe vnder the rod, and wil bring you into the bond of the couenant.
Ezekiel 20:38	And I wil chuse out from among you the rebels, and them that transgresse against mee: I will bring them out of the land where they dwel, and they shall not enter into the lande of Israel, and you shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 20:39	As for you, O house of Israel, thus saith the Lord God, Goe you, and serue euery one his idole, seeing that ye will not obey me, and pollute mine holy Name no more with your giftes and with your idoles.
Ezekiel 20:40	For in mine holy mountaine, euen in the hie mountaine of Israel, saith the Lord God, there shall all the house of Israel, and all in the lande, serue me: there will I accept them, and there will I require your offrings and the first fruites of your oblations, with all your holy things.
Ezekiel 20:41	I will accept your sweete sauour, when I bring you from the people, and gather you out of the countreys, wherein ye haue bene scattered, that I may be sanctified in you before ye heathen.
Ezekiel 20:42	And ye shall knowe, that I am the Lord, when I shall bring you into the land of Israel, into the land, for the which I lifted vp mine hande to giue it to your fathers.
Ezekiel 20:43	And there shall ye remember your wayes, and all your workes, wherein ye haue bene defiled, and ye shall iudge your selues worthy to be cut off, for all your euils, that ye haue committed.
Ezekiel 20:44	And ye shall knowe, that I am the Lord, when I haue respect vnto you for my Names sake, and not after your wicked wayes, nor according to your corrupt workes, O ye house of Israel, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 20:45	Moreouer, the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 20:46	Sonne of man, set thy face toward the way of Teman, and drop thy word toward the South, and prophecie towarde the forest of the fielde of the South,
Ezekiel 20:47	And say to the forest of the South, Heare the worde of the Lord: thus saith the Lord God, Beholde, I will kindle a fire in thee, and it shall deuoure all the greene wood in thee, and all the drie wood: the continuall flame shall not bee quenched, and euery face from the South to the North shall be burnt therein.
Ezekiel 20:48	And all flesh shall see, that I the Lord haue kindled it, and it shall not bee quenched. Then saide I, Ah Lord God, they say of me, Doeth not he speake parables?
Ezekiel 21:1	The word of ye Lord came to me againe, saying,
Ezekiel 21:2	Sonne of man, set thy face toward Ierusalem, and drop thy word toward the holy places, and prophecie against the land of Israel.
Ezekiel 21:3	And say to the land of Israel, Thus saith the Lord, Beholde, I come against thee, and will drawe my sword out of his sheath, and cut off from thee both the righteous and the wicked.
Ezekiel 21:4	Seeing then that I will cut off from thee both the righteous and wicked, therefore shall my sworde goe out of his sheath against all flesh from the South to the North,
Ezekiel 21:5	That all flesh may knowe that I the Lord haue drawen my sworde out of his sheath, and it shall not returne any more.
Ezekiel 21:6	Mourne therefore, thou sonne of man, as in the paine of thy reines, and mourne bitterly before them.
Ezekiel 21:7	And if they say vnto thee, Wherefore mournest thou? then answere, Because of the bruite: for it commeth, and euery heart shall melt, and all handes shall be weake, and all mindes shall faint, and all knees shall fall away as water: beholde, it commeth, and shall be done, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 21:8	Againe, the word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 21:9	Sonne of man, prophecie, and say, Thus saith the Lord God, say, A sworde, a sworde both sharpe, and fourbished.
Ezekiel 21:10	It is sharpened to make a sore slaughter, and it is fourbished that it may glitter: how shall we reioyce? for it contemneth the rod of my sonne, as all other trees.
Ezekiel 21:11	And he hath giuen it to be fourbished, that he may handle it: this sword is sharpe, and is fourbished, that he may giue it into ye hand of the slayer.
Ezekiel 21:12	Cry, and houle, sonne of man: for this shall come to my people, and it shall come vnto all the princes of Israel: the terrours of the sword shall be vpon my people: smite therefore vpon thy thigh.
Ezekiel 21:13	For it is a triall, and what shall this be, if the sworde contemne euen the rodde? It shall be no more, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 21:14	Thou therefore, sonne of man, prophecie, and smite hand to hand, and let the sworde be doubled: let the sworde that hath killed, returne the third time: it is the sword of the great slaughter entring into their priuie chambers.
Ezekiel 21:15	I haue brought the feare of the sword into all their gates to make their heart to faint, and to multiplie their ruines. Ah it is made bright, and it is dressed for the slaughter.
Ezekiel 21:16	Get thee alone: goe to the right hande, or get thy selfe to the left hande, whithersoeuer thy face turneth.
Ezekiel 21:17	I wil also smite mine hands together, and wil cause my wrath to cease. I the Lord haue said it.
Ezekiel 21:18	The worde of the Lord came vnto mee againe, saying,
Ezekiel 21:19	Also thou sonne of man, appoint thee two wayes, that the sworde of the King of Babel may come: both twaine shall come out of one lande, and chuse a place, and chuse it in the corner of the way of the citie.
Ezekiel 21:20	Appoint a way, that the sworde may come to Rabbath of the Ammonites, and to Iudah in Ierusalem the strong citie.
Ezekiel 21:21	And the King of Babel stoode at the parting of the way, at the head of the two wayes, consulting by diuination, and made his arrowes bright: hee consulted with idoles, and looked in the liuer.
Ezekiel 21:22	At his right hand was the diuination for Ierusalem to appoint captaines, to open their mouth in the slaughter, and to lift vp their voyce with shouting, to laye engines of warre against the gates, to cast a mount, and to builde a fortresse.
Ezekiel 21:23	And it shalbe vnto them as a false diuination in their sight for the othes made vnto them: but hee will call to remembrance their iniquitie, to the intent they should be taken.
Ezekiel 21:24	Therefore thus sayeth the Lord God, Because ye haue made your iniquitie to bee remembred, in discouering your rebellion, that in al your workes your sinnes might appeare: because, I say, that ye are come to remembrance, ye shall be taken with the hand.
Ezekiel 21:25	And thou prince of Israel polluted, and wicked, whose day is come, when iniquitie shall haue an ende,
Ezekiel 21:26	Thus saith the Lord God, I will take away the diademe, and take off the crowne: this shalbe no more the same: I wil exalt the humble, and will abase him that is hie.
Ezekiel 21:27	I wil ouerturne, ouerturne, ouerturne it, and it shall be no more vntill he come, whose right it is, and I will giue it him.
Ezekiel 21:28	And thou, sonne of man, prophecie, and say, Thus saith the Lord God to the children of Ammon, and to their blasphemie: say thou, I say, The sword, the sword is drawen foorth, and fourbished to the slaughter, to consume, because of the glittering:
Ezekiel 21:29	Whiles they see vanitie vnto thee, and prophecied a lie vnto thee to bring thee vpon the neckes of the wicked that are slaine, whose day is come when their iniquitie shall haue an ende.
Ezekiel 21:30	Shall I cause it to returne into his sheath? I will iudge thee in the place where thou wast created, euen in the land of thine habitation.
Ezekiel 21:31	And I wil powre out mine indignation vpon thee, and will blowe against thee in the fire of my wrath, and deliuer thee into the hand of beastly men, and skilfull to destroy.
Ezekiel 21:32	Thou shalt bee in the fire to be deuoured: thy blood shall be in the middes of the lande, and thou shalt be no more remembred: for I the Lord haue spoken it.
Ezekiel 22:1	Moreover, the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 22:2	Now thou sonne of man, wilt thou iudge, wilt thou iudge this bloody citie? wilt thou shew her all her abominations?
Ezekiel 22:3	Then say, Thus sayth the Lord God, The citie sheddeth blood in the middes of it, that her time may come, and maketh idols against her selfe to pollute her selfe.
Ezekiel 22:4	Thou hast offended in thy blood, that thou hast shed, and hast polluted thy selfe in thine idols, which thou hast made, and thou hast caused thy dayes to draw neere, and art come vnto thy terme: therefore haue I made thee a reproch to the heathen, and a mocking to all countreys.
Ezekiel 22:5	Those that be neere, and those that be farre from thee, shall mocke thee, which art vile in name and sore in affliction.
Ezekiel 22:6	Beholde, the princes of Israel euery one in thee was ready to his power, to shed blood.
Ezekiel 22:7	In thee haue they despised father and mother: in the middes of thee haue they oppressed the stranger: in thee haue they vexed the fatherlesse and the widowe.
Ezekiel 22:8	Thou hast despised mine holy things, and hast polluted my Sabbaths.
Ezekiel 22:9	In thee are men that cary tales to shed blood: in thee are they that eate vpon the mountaines: in ye mids of thee they comit abomination.
Ezekiel 22:10	In thee haue they discouered their fathers shame: in thee haue they vexed her that was polluted in her floures.
Ezekiel 22:11	And euery one hath committed abomination with his neighbours wife, and euery one hath wickedly defiled his daughter in lawe, and in thee hath euery man forced his owne sister, euen his fathers daughter.
Ezekiel 22:12	In thee haue they taken giftes to shed blood: thou hast taken vsurie and the encrease, and thou hast defrauded thy neighbours by extortion, and hast forgotten me, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 22:13	Beholde, therefore I haue smitten mine hands vpon thy couetousnesse, that thou hast vsed, and vpon the blood, which hath bene in the middes of thee.
Ezekiel 22:14	Can thine heart endure, or can thine hands be strong, in the dayes that I shall haue to doe with thee? I the Lord haue spoken it, and will doe it.
Ezekiel 22:15	And I wil scatter thee among the heathen, and disperse thee in the countreys, and will cause thy filthines to cease from thee.
Ezekiel 22:16	And thou shalt take thine inheritance in thy selfe in the sight of the heathen, and thou shalt knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 22:17	And the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 22:18	Sonne of man, the house of Israel is vnto me as drosse: all they are brasse, and tinne, and yron, and leade in the mids of the fornace: they are euen the drosse of siluer.
Ezekiel 22:19	Therefore, thus sayth the Lord God, Because ye are all as drosse, beholde, therefore I will gather you in the middes of Ierusalem.
Ezekiel 22:20	As they gather siluer and brasse, and yron, and leade, and tinne into the middes of the fornace, to blowe the fire vpon it to melt it, so wil I gather you in mine anger and in my wrath, and wil put you there and melt you.
Ezekiel 22:21	I wil gather you, I say, and blowe the fire of my wrath vpon you, and you shalbe melted in the mids thereof.
Ezekiel 22:22	As siluer is melted in the mids of the fornace, so shall ye be melted in the mids thereof, and ye shall knowe, that I the Lord haue powred out my wrath vpon you.
Ezekiel 22:23	And the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 22:24	Sonne of man, say vnto her; Thou art the land, that is vncleane, and not rained vpon in the day of wrath.
Ezekiel 22:25	There is a conspiracie of her prophets in the mids thereof like a roaring lyon, rauening the praye: they haue deuoured soules: they haue taken the riches and precious things: they haue made her many widowes in the mids thereof.
Ezekiel 22:26	Her Priests haue broken my Lawe, and haue defiled mine holy things: they haue put no difference betweene the holy and prophane, neither discerned betweene the vncleane, and the cleane, and haue hid their eyes from my Sabbaths, and I am prophaned among them.
Ezekiel 22:27	Her princes in the mids thereof are like wolues, rauening the praye to shed blood, and to destroy soules for their owne couetous lucre.
Ezekiel 22:28	And her prophets haue dawbed them with vntempered morter, seeing vanities, and diuining lies vnto them, saying, Thus sayth the Lord God, when the Lord had not spoken.
Ezekiel 22:29	The people of the land haue violently oppressed by spoyling and robbing, and haue vexed the poore and the needy: yea, they haue oppressed the stranger against right.
Ezekiel 22:30	And I sought for a man among them, that should make vp the hedge, and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none.
Ezekiel 22:31	Therefore haue I powred out mine indignation vpon them, and consumed them with the fire of my wrath: their owne wayes haue I rendred vpon their heads, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 23:1	The worde of the Lord came againe vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 23:2	Sonne of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother.
Ezekiel 23:3	And they committed fornication in Egypt, they committed fornication in their youth: there were their breasts pressed, and there they bruised the teates of their virginitie.
Ezekiel 23:4	And the names of them were Aholah the elder, and Aholibah her sister: and they were mine, and they bare sonnes and daughters: thus were their names. Samaria is Aholah, and Ierusalem Aholibah.
Ezekiel 23:5	And Aholah played the harlot when she was mine, and she was set on fire with her louers, to wit, with the Assyrians her neighbours,
Ezekiel 23:6	Which were clothed with blewe silke, both captaines and princes: they were all pleasant yong men, and horsemen riding vpon horses.
Ezekiel 23:7	Thus she committed her whoredome with them, euen with all them that were the chosen men of Asshur, and with all on whome she doted, and defiled her selfe with all their idoles.
Ezekiel 23:8	Neither left she her fornications, learned of the Egyptians: for in her youth they lay with her, and they bruised the breasts of her virginitie, and powred their whoredome vpon her.
Ezekiel 23:9	Wherefore I deliuered her into the hands of her louers, euen into the hands of the Assyrians, vpon whome she doted.
Ezekiel 23:10	These discouered her shame: they tooke away her sonnes and her daughters, and slewe her with the sworde, and she had an euill name among women: for they had executed iudgement vpon her.
Ezekiel 23:11	And when her sister Aholibah sawe this, she marred her selfe with inordinate loue, more then she, and with her fornications more then her sister with her fornications.
Ezekiel 23:12	She doted vpon the Assyrians her neighbours, both captaines and princes clothed with diuers sutes, horsemen ryding vpon horses: they were all pleasant yong men.
Ezekiel 23:13	Then I sawe that she was defiled, and that they were both after one sort,
Ezekiel 23:14	And that she encreased her fornications: for when she sawe men painted vpon the wall, the images of the Caldeans painted with vermelon,
Ezekiel 23:15	And girded with girdles vpon their loynes, and with dyed attyre vpon their heads (looking all like princes after the maner of the Babylonians in Caldea, the land of their natiuitie)
Ezekiel 23:16	Assoone, I say, as she sawe them, she doted vpon them, and sent messengers vnto them into Caldea.
Ezekiel 23:17	Nowe when the Babylonians came to her into the bed of loue, they defiled her with their fornication, and she was polluted with them, and her lust departed from them.
Ezekiel 23:18	So she discouered her fornication, and disclosed her shame: then mine heart forsooke her, like as mine heart had forsaken her sister.
Ezekiel 23:19	Yet she encreased her whoredome more, and called to remembrance ye dayes of her youth, wherein she had played the harlot in the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel 23:20	For she doted vpon their seruants whose members are as the members of asses, and whose yssue is like the yssue of horses.
Ezekiel 23:21	Thou calledst to remembrance the wickednes of thy youth, when thy teates were bruised by ye Egyptians: therefore ye paps of thy youth are thus.
Ezekiel 23:22	Therefore, O Aholibah, thus sayeth the Lord God, Beholde, I will raise vp thy louers against thee, from whome thine heart is departed, and I will bring them against thee on euery side,
Ezekiel 23:23	To wit, the Babylonians, and all the Caldeans, Peked, and Shoah, and Koa, and all the Assyrians with them: they were all pleasant yong men, captaines and princes: all they were valiant and renoumed, riding vpon horses.
Ezekiel 23:24	Euen these shall come against thee with charets, waggons, and wheeles, and with a multitude of people, which shall set against thee, buckler and shield, and helmet round about: and I will leaue the punishment vnto them, and they shall iudge thee according to their iudgements.
Ezekiel 23:25	And I wil lay mine indignation vpon thee, and they shall deale cruelly with thee: they shall cut off thy nose and thine eares, and thy remnant shall fall by the sword: they shall cary away thy sonnes and thy daughters, and thy residue shall be deuoured by the fire.
Ezekiel 23:26	They shall also strip thee out of thy clothes, and take away thy fayre iewels.
Ezekiel 23:27	Thus wil I make thy wickednes to cease from thee and thy fornication out of the land of Egypt: so that thou shalt not lift vp thine eyes vnto them, nor remember Egypt any more.
Ezekiel 23:28	For thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I wil deliuer thee into the hand of them, whome thou hatest: euen into the hands of them from whome thine heart is departed.
Ezekiel 23:29	And they shall handle thee despitefully, and shall take away all thy labour, and shall leaue thee naked and bare, and the shame of thy fornications shalbe discouered, both thy wickednes, and thy whoredome.
Ezekiel 23:30	I wil doe these things vnto thee, because thou hast gone a whoring after the heathen, and because thou art polluted with their idoles.
Ezekiel 23:31	Thou hast walked in the way of thy sister: therefore wil I giue her cup into thine hand.
Ezekiel 23:32	Thus saith ye Lord God, Thou shalt drinke of thy sisters cup, deepe and large: thou shalt be laughed to scorne and had in derision, because it containeth much.
Ezekiel 23:33	Thou shalt be filled with drunkennes and sorow, euen with the cup of destruction, and desolation, with the cup of thy sister Samaria.
Ezekiel 23:34	Thou shalt euen drinke it, and wring it out to the dregges, and thou shalt breake the sheards thereof, and teare thine owne breasts: for I haue spoken it, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 23:35	Therefore thus saith the Lord God, Because thou hast forgotten me, and cast me behinde thy backe, therefore thou shalt also beare thy wickednes and thy whoredome.
Ezekiel 23:36	The Lord sayd moreouer vnto me, Sonne of man, wilt thou iudge Aholah and Aholibah? and wilt thou declare to them their abominations?
Ezekiel 23:37	For they haue played the whores, and blood is in their hands, and with their idoles haue they committed adulterie, and haue also caused their sonnes, whome they bare vnto me, to passe by the fire to be their meate.
Ezekiel 23:38	Moreouer, thus haue they done vnto me: they haue defiled my Sanctuarie in the same day, and haue prophaned my Sabbaths.
Ezekiel 23:39	For when they had slaine their children to their idoles, they came the same day into my Sanctuarie to defile it: and loe, thus haue they done in the middes of mine house.
Ezekiel 23:40	And howe much more is it that they sent for men to come from farre vnto whom a messenger was sent, and loe, they came? for whome thou diddest wash thy selfe, and paintedst thine eyes, and deckedst thee with ornaments,
Ezekiel 23:41	And satest vpon a costly bed, and a table prepared before it, whereupon thou hast set mine incense and mine oyle.
Ezekiel 23:42	And a voyce of a multitude being at ease, was with her: and with the men to make the company great were brought men of Saba from the wildernes, which put bracelets vpon their hands, and beautifull crownes vpon their heads.
Ezekiel 23:43	Then I sayd vnto her, that was olde in adulteries, Now shall she and her fornications come to an end.
Ezekiel 23:44	And they went in vnto her as they goe to a common harlot: so went they to Aholah and Aholibah the wicked women.
Ezekiel 23:45	And ye righteous men they shall iudge them, after the maner of harlots, and after the maner of murtherers: for they are harlots, and blood is in their hands.
Ezekiel 23:46	Wherefore thus sayth the Lord God, I will bring a multitude vpon them, and will giue them vnto the tumult, and to the spoyle,
Ezekiel 23:47	And the multitude shall stone them with stones, and cut them with their swordes: they shall slay their sonnes, and their daughters, and burne vp their houses with fire.
Ezekiel 23:48	Thus will I cause wickednesse to cease out of the land, that all women may be taught not to doe after your wickednesse.
Ezekiel 23:49	And they shall laye your wickednesse vpon you, and ye shall beare the sinnes of your idoles, and ye shall knowe that I am the Lord God.
Ezekiel 24:1	Again in the ninth yeere, in the tenth moneth, in the tenth day of the moneth, came the worde of the Lord vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 24:2	Sonne of man, write thee the name of the day, euen of this same day: for the King of Babel set himselfe against Ierusalem this same day.
Ezekiel 24:3	Therefore speake a parable vnto the rebellious house, and say vnto them, Thus sayth the Lord God, Prepare a pot, prepare it, and also powre water into it.
Ezekiel 24:4	Gather the pieces thereof into it, euen euery good piece, as the thigh and the shoulder, and fill it with the chiefe bones.
Ezekiel 24:5	Take one of the best sheepe, and burne also the bones vnder it, and make it boyle well, and seethe the bones of it therein,
Ezekiel 24:6	Because the Lord God sayth thus, Woe to the bloody citie, euen to the pot, whose skomme is therein, and whose skomme is not gone out of it: bring it out piece by piece: let no lot fall vpon it.
Ezekiel 24:7	For her blood is in the middes of her: shee set it vpon an high rocke, and powred it not vpon on the ground to couer it with dust,
Ezekiel 24:8	That it might cause wrath to arise, and take vengeance: euen I haue set her blood vpon an high rocke that it should not be couered.
Ezekiel 24:9	Therefore thus saith ye Lord God, Woe to the bloody citie, for I will make ye burning great.
Ezekiel 24:10	Heape on much wood: kindle the fire, consume the flesh, and cast in spice, and let the bones be burnt.
Ezekiel 24:11	Then set it emptie vpon the coles thereof, that the brasse of it may be hot, and may burne, and that the filthinesse of it may be molten in it, and that the skomme of it may be consumed.
Ezekiel 24:12	She hath wearied her selfe with lyes, and her great skomme went not out of her: therefore her skomme shall be consumed with fire.
Ezekiel 24:13	Thou remainest in thy filthines and wickednes: because I would haue purged thee, and thou wast not purged, thou shalt not be purged from thy filthines, till I haue caused my wrath to light vpon thee.
Ezekiel 24:14	I the Lord haue spoken it: it shall come to passe, and I will doe it: I will not goe backe, neither will I spare, neither will I repent: according to thy wayes, and according to thy workes shall they iudge thee, sayeth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 24:15	Also the worde of ye Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 24:16	Sonne of man beholde, I take away from thee the pleasure of thine eyes with a plague: yet shalt thou neither mourne nor weepe, neither shall thy teares runne downe.
Ezekiel 24:17	Cease from sighing: make no mourning for the dead, and binde the tyre of thine head vpon thee, and put on thy shooes vpon thy feete, and couer not thy lips, and eate not the bread of men.
Ezekiel 24:18	So I spake vnto the people in the morning, and at euen my wife dyed: and I did in the morning, as I was commanded.
Ezekiel 24:19	And the people said vnto me, Wilt thou not tell vs what these things meane towarde vs that thou doest so?
Ezekiel 24:20	Then I answered them, The worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 24:21	Speake vnto the house of Israel, Thus sayth the Lord God, Behold, I will pollute my Sanctuarie, euen the pride of your power, the pleasure of your eyes, and your hearts desire, and your sonnes, and your daughters whom ye haue left, shall fall by the sworde.
Ezekiel 24:22	And ye shall doe as I haue done: ye shall not couer your lippes, neither shall ye eate the bread of men.
Ezekiel 24:23	And your tyre shalbe vpon your heads, and your shooes vpon your feete: ye shall not mourne nor weepe, but ye shall pine away for your iniquities, and mourne one toward another.
Ezekiel 24:24	Thus Ezekiel is vnto you a signe: according to all that he hath done, ye shall do: and when this commeth, ye shall know that I am the Lord God.
Ezekiel 24:25	Also, thou sonne of man, shall it not be in the day when I take from them their power, ye ioy of their honor, ye pleasure of their eyes, and the desire of their heart, their sonnes and their daughters?
Ezekiel 24:26	That he that escapeth in that day, shall come vnto thee to tell thee that which hee hath heard with his eares?
Ezekiel 24:27	In that day shall thy mouth be opened to him which is escaped, and thou shalt speake, and be no more dumme, and thou shalt be a signe vnto them, and they shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 25:1	The worde of the Lord came againe vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 25:2	Sonne of man, set thy face against the Ammonites, and prophecie against them,
Ezekiel 25:3	And say vnto the Ammonites, Heare the word of the Lord God, Thus saith the Lord God, Because thou saydest, Ha, ha, against my Sanctuarie, when it was polluted, and against the land of Israel, when it was desolate, and against the house of Iudah, when they went into captiuitie,
Ezekiel 25:4	Beholde, therefore I will deliuer thee to the men of the East for a possession, and they shall set their palaces in thee, and make their dwellings in thee: they shall eate thy fruite, and they shall drinke thy milke.
Ezekiel 25:5	And I will make Rabbah a dwelling place for camels, and the Ammonites a sheepecote, and ye shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 25:6	For thus saith the Lord God, Because thou hast clapped the hands, and stamped with the feete, and reioyced in heart with all thy despite against the land of Israel,
Ezekiel 25:7	Beholde, therefore I will stretche out mine hand vpon thee, and will deliuer thee to be spoyled of the heathen, and I will roote thee out from the people, and I will cause thee to be destroyed out of the countreys, and I will destroy thee, and thou shalt know that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 25:8	Thus saith the Lord God, Because that Moab and Seir doe say, Beholde, the house of Iudah is like vnto all the heathen,
Ezekiel 25:9	Therefore, beholde, I will open the side of Moab, euen of the cities of his cities, I say, in his frontiers with the pleasant countrey, Beth-ieshimoth, Baal-meon, and Karia-thaim.
Ezekiel 25:10	I will call the men of the East against the Ammonites, and will giue them in possession, so that the Ammonites shall no more be remembred among the nations,
Ezekiel 25:11	And I will execute iudgements vpon Moab, and they shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 25:12	Thus sayth the Lord God, Because that Edom hath done euill by taking vengeance vpon the house of Iudah, and hath committed great offence, and reuenged himselfe vpon them,
Ezekiel 25:13	Therefore thus saith the Lord God, I will also stretch out mine hand vpon Edom, and destroy man and beast out of it, and I will make it desolate from Teman, and they of Dedan shall fall by the sworde.
Ezekiel 25:14	And I will execute my vengeance vpon Edom by the hand of my people Israel, and they shall doe in Edom according to mine anger, and according to mine indignation, and they shall know my vengeance, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 25:15	Thus sayth the Lord God, Because the Philistims haue executed vengeance, and reuenged themselues with a despitefull heart, to destroy it for the olde hatred,
Ezekiel 25:16	Therefore thus sayth the Lord God, Behold, I will stretche out mine hand vpon the Philistims, and I will cut off the Cherethims, and destroy the remnant of the sea coast.
Ezekiel 25:17	And I will execute great vengeance vpon them with rebukes of mine indignation, and they shall knowe that I am the Lord, when I shall lay my vengeance vpon them.
Ezekiel 26:1	And in the eleuenth yeere, in the first day of the moneth, the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 26:2	Sonne of man, because that Tyrus hath said against Ierusalem, Aha, the gate of the people is broken: it is turned vnto me: for seeing she is desolate, I shall be replenished,
Ezekiel 26:3	Therefore thus sayth the Lord God, Beholde, I come against thee, O Tyrus, and I will bring vp many nations against thee, as the sea mounteth vp with his waues.
Ezekiel 26:4	And they shall destroy the walles of Tyrus and breake downe her towres: I will also scrape her dust from her, and make her like the top of a rocke.
Ezekiel 26:5	Thou shalt be for the spreading of nettes in the middes of the sea: for I haue spoken it, sayth the Lord God, and it shalbe a spoile to ye nations.
Ezekiel 26:6	And her daughters which are in the fielde, shall be slaine by the sworde, and they shall know that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 26:7	For thus sayth the Lord God, Behold, I will bring vpon Tyrus Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel, a King of Kings from the North, with horses and with charets, and with horsemen, with a multitude and much people.
Ezekiel 26:8	He shall slay with the sword thy daughters in the fielde, and he shall make a fort against thee, and cast a mount against thee, and lift vp the buckler against thee.
Ezekiel 26:9	He shall set engins of warre before him against thy walles, and with his weapons breake downe thy towres.
Ezekiel 26:10	The dust of his horses shall couer thee, for their multitude: thy walles shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, and of the wheeles, and of the charets, when he shall enter into thy gates as into the entrie of a citie that is broken downe.
Ezekiel 26:11	With the hooues of his horses shall he treade downe all thy streetes: he shall slay thy people by the sworde, and the pillars of thy strength shall fall downe to the ground.
Ezekiel 26:12	And they shall robbe thy riches, and spoyle thy marchandise, and they shall breake downe thy walles, and destroy thy pleasant houses, and they shall cast thy stones and thy timber and thy dust into the middes of the water.
Ezekiel 26:13	Thus will I cause the sounde of thy songs to cease, and the sound of thine harpes shall be no more heard.
Ezekiel 26:14	I wil lay thee like the top of a rocke: thou shalt be for a spreading of nets: thou shalt be built no more: for I the Lord haue spoken it, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 26:15	Thus sayth the Lord God to Tyrus, Shall not the yles tremble at the sounde of thy fall? and at the crie of the wounded, when they shall be slaine and murthered in the middes of thee?
Ezekiel 26:16	Then all the princes of the sea shall come downe from their thrones: they shall lay away their robes, and put off their broydered garments, and shall clothe themselues with astonishment: they shall sitte vpon the ground, and be astonished at euery moment, and be amased at thee.
Ezekiel 26:17	And they shall take vp a lamentation for thee, and say to thee, Howe art thou destroyed, that wast inhabited of the sea men, the renoumed citie which was strong in the sea, both she and her inhabitants, which cause their feare to be on all that haunt therein!
Ezekiel 26:18	Nowe shall the yles be astonished in the day of thy fall: yea, the yles that are in the sea, shall be troubled at thy departure.
Ezekiel 26:19	For thus saith the Lord God, When I shall make thee a desolate citie, like ye cities that are not inhabited, and when I shall bring the deepe vpon thee, and great waters shall couer thee,
Ezekiel 26:20	When I shall cast thee downe with them that descende into the pitte, with the people of olde time, and shall set thee in the lowe partes of the earth, like the olde ruines, with them, I say, which goe downe to the pitte, so that thou shalt not be inhabited, and I shall shewe my glory in the land of the liuing,
Ezekiel 26:21	I will bring thee to nothing, and thou shalt be no more: though thou be sought for, yet shalt thou neuer be found againe, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 27:1	The worde of the Lord came againe vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 27:2	Sonne of man, take vp a lametation for Tyrus,
Ezekiel 27:3	And say vnto Tyrus, that is situate at the entrie of the sea, which is the marte of the people for many yles, Thus sayeth the Lord God, O Tyrus, thou hast said, I am of perfite beautie.
Ezekiel 27:4	Thy borders are in the middes of the sea, and thy builders haue made thee of perfit beauty.
Ezekiel 27:5	They haue made all thy shippe boardes of firre trees of Shenir: they haue brought cedars from Lebanon, to make mastes for thee.
Ezekiel 27:6	Of ye okes of Bashan haue they made thine ores: the company of the Assyrians haue made thy banks of yuorie, brought out of ye yles of Chittim.
Ezekiel 27:7	Fine linen with broydered woorke, brought from Egypt, was spread ouer thee to be thy sayle, blue silke and purple, brought from the yles of Elishah, was thy couering.
Ezekiel 27:8	The inhabitants of Zidon, and Aruad were thy mariners, O Tyrus: thy wise men that were in thee, they were thy pilots.
Ezekiel 27:9	The ancients of Gebal, and the wise men thereof were in thee thy calkers, all the shippes of the sea with their mariners were in thee to occupie thy marchandise.
Ezekiel 27:10	They of Persia, and of Lud and of Phut were in thine armie: thy men of warre they hanged the shielde and helmet in thee: they set foorth thy beautie.
Ezekiel 27:11	The men of Aruad with thine armie were vpon thy walles round about, and the Gammadims were in thy towres: they hanged their shields vpon thy walles round about: they haue made thy beautie perfite.
Ezekiel 27:12	They of Tarshish were thy marchantes for the multitude of all riches, for siluer, yron, tynne, and leade, which they brought to thy faires.
Ezekiel 27:13	They of Iauan, Tubal and Meshech were thy marchants, concerning the liues of men, and they brought vessels of brasse for thy marchadise.
Ezekiel 27:14	They of the house of Togarmah brought to thy faires horses, and horsemen, and mules.
Ezekiel 27:15	The men of Dedan were thy marchantes: and the marchandise of many yles were in thine handes: they brought thee for a present hornes, teeth, and peacockes.
Ezekiel 27:16	They of Aram were thy marchants for the multitude of thy wares: they occupied in thy faires with emerauds, purple, and broidred worke, and fine linen, and corall, and pearle.
Ezekiel 27:17	They of Iudah and of the land of Israel were thy marchants: they brought for thy marchandise wheat of Minnith, and Pannag, and honie and oyle, and balme.
Ezekiel 27:18	They of Damascus were thy marchants in ye multitude of thy wares, for the multitude of all riches, as in the wine of Helbon and white wooll.
Ezekiel 27:19	They of Dan also and of Iauan, going to and from, occupied in thy faires: yron woorke, cassia and calamus were among thy marchandise.
Ezekiel 27:20	They of Dedan were thy marchants in precious clothes for the charets.
Ezekiel 27:21	They of Arabia, and all the princes of Kedar occupied with thee, in lambes, and rammes and goates: in these were they thy marchants.
Ezekiel 27:22	The marchats of Sheba, and Raamah were thy marchantes: they occupied in thy faires with the chiefe of all spices, and with al precious stones and golde.
Ezekiel 27:23	They of Haram and Canneh and Eden, the marchants of Sheba, Asshur and Chilmad were thy marchants.
Ezekiel 27:24	These were thy marchants in all sortes of things, in raiment of blewe silke, and of broydred woorke, and in coffers for the rich apparell, which were bound with cordes: chaines also were among thy marchandise.
Ezekiel 27:25	The shippes of Tarshish were thy chiefe in thy marchandise, and thou wast replenished and made very glorious in the middes of the sea.
Ezekiel 27:26	Thy robbers haue brought thee into great waters: the East winde hath broken thee in the middes of the sea.
Ezekiel 27:27	Thy riches and thy faires, thy marchandise, thy mariners and pilotes, thy calkers, and the occupiers of thy marchandise and al thy men of warre that are in thee, and all thy multitude which is in the middes of thee, shall fall in the middes of the sea in the day of thy ruine.
Ezekiel 27:28	The suburbes shall shake at the sound of the crie of thy pilotes.
Ezekiel 27:29	And all that handle the ore, the mariners and al the pilots of the sea shall come downe from their shippes, and shall stand vpon the land,
Ezekiel 27:30	And shall cause their voyce to be heard against thee, and shall cry bitterly, and shall cast dust vpon their heads, and wallow theselues in the ashes.
Ezekiel 27:31	They shall plucke off their heare for thee and gird them with a sackecloth, and they shall weepe for thee with sorow of heart and bitter mourning.
Ezekiel 27:32	And in their mourning, they shall take vp a lametation for thee, saying, What citie is like Tyrus, so destroied in the middes of the sea!
Ezekiel 27:33	When thy wares went foorth of the seas, thou filledst many people, and thou diddest enrich the Kings of the earth with the multitude of thy riches and of thy marchandise.
Ezekiel 27:34	When thou shalt be broken by ye seas in the depths of the waters, thy marchandise and all thy multitude, which was in the mids of thee, shall fal.
Ezekiel 27:35	All the inhabitantes of the yles shall be astonished at thee, and all their Kings shall be sore afraide and troubled in their countenance.
Ezekiel 27:36	The marchants among the people shall hisse at thee: thou shalt be a terrour, and neuer shalt be any more.
Ezekiel 28:1	The word of the Lord came againe vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 28:2	Sonne of man, say vnto the prince of Tyrus, Thus saieth the Lord God, Because thine heart is exalted, and thou hast said, I am a God, I sit in the seat of God in ye mids of the sea, yet thou art but a man and not God, and though thou didest thinke in thine heart, that thou wast equall with God,
Ezekiel 28:3	Behold, thou art wiser then Daniel: there is no secrete, that they can hide from thee.
Ezekiel 28:4	With thy wisedome and thine vnderstanding thou hast gotten thee riches, and hast gotten golde and siluer into thy treasures.
Ezekiel 28:5	By thy great wisedome and by thine occupying hast thou increased thy riches, and thine heart is lifted vp because of thy riches.
Ezekiel 28:6	Therefore thus sayeth the Lord God, Because thou didest thinke in thine heart, that thou wast equall with God,
Ezekiel 28:7	Behold, therefore I wil bring strangers vpon thee, euen the terrible nations: and they shall drawe their swordes against the beautie of thy wisedome, and they shall defile thy brightnes.
Ezekiel 28:8	They shall cast thee downe to the pit, and thou shalt die the death of them, that are slaine in the middes of the sea.
Ezekiel 28:9	Wilt thou say then before him, that slayeth thee, I am a god? but thou shalt be a man, and no God, in the hands of him that slayeth thee.
Ezekiel 28:10	Thou shalt die the death of the vncircumcised by the hands of stragers: for I haue spoken it, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 28:11	Moreouer the word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 28:12	Sonne of man, take vp a lamentation vpon the King of Tyrus, and say vnto him, Thus sayeth the Lord God, Thou sealest vp the summe, and art full of wisedome and perfite in beautie.
Ezekiel 28:13	Thou hast ben in Eden the garden of God: euery precious stone was in thy garment, the rubie, the topaze and the diamonde, the chrysolite, the onix, and the iasper, the saphir, emeraude, and the carbuncle and golde: the woorkemanship of thy timbrels, and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created.
Ezekiel 28:14	Thou art the anointed Cherub, that couereth, and I haue set thee in honour: thou wast vpon the holy mountaine of God: thou hast walked in the middes of the stones of fire.
Ezekiel 28:15	Thou wast perfite in thy wayes from the day that thou wast created, till iniquitie was found in thee.
Ezekiel 28:16	By the multitude of thy marchandise, they haue filled the middes of thee with crueltie, and thou hast sinned: therefore I will cast thee as prophane out of the mountaine of God: and I will destroy thee, O couering Cherub from the mids of the stones of fire.
Ezekiel 28:17	Thine heart was lifted vp because of thy beautie, and thou hast corrupted thy wisedome by reason of thy brightnes: I wil cast thee to ye grounde: I will lay thee before Kinges that they may beholde thee.
Ezekiel 28:18	Thou hast defiled thy sanctification by the multitude of thine iniquities, and by the iniquitie of thy marchandise: therefore wil I bring forth a fire from the mids of thee, which shall deuoure thee: and I wil bring thee to ashes vpon the earth, in the sight of all them that beholde thee.
Ezekiel 28:19	All they that knowe thee among the people, shalbe astonished at thee: thou shalt be a terrour, and neuer shalt thou be any more.
Ezekiel 28:20	Againe, the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 28:21	Sonne of man, set thy face against Zidon, and prophesie against it,
Ezekiel 28:22	And say, Thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I come against thee, O Zidon, and I will be glorified in the mids of thee: and they shall know that I am the Lord, when I shall haue executed iudgements in her, and shalbe sanctified in her.
Ezekiel 28:23	For I wil send into her pestilence, and blood into her streetes, and the slaine shall fall in the middes of her: the enemie shall come against her with the sword on euery side, and they shall know that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 28:24	And they shalbe no more a pricking thorne vnto the house of Israel, nor any grieuous thorne of all that are round about them, and despised them, and they shall knowe that I am the Lord God.
Ezekiel 28:25	Thus saith the Lord God, When I shall haue gathered the house of Israel from the people where they are scattered, and shalbe sanctified in them in the sight of the heathen, then shall they dwel in the land, that I haue giuen to my seruant Iaakob.
Ezekiel 28:26	And they shall dwell safely therein, and shall builde houses, and plant vineyards: yea, they shall dwell safely, when I haue executed iudgements vpon al round about them that despise them, and they shall knowe that I am the Lord their God.
Ezekiel 29:1	In the tenth yeere, and in the tenth moneth in the twelfth day of the moneth, the word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 29:2	Sonne of man, set thy face against Pharaoh the King of Egypt, and prophecie against him, and against all Egypt.
Ezekiel 29:3	Speake, and say, Thus sayth the Lord God, Beholde, I come against thee, Pharaoh King of Egypt, the great dragon, that lieth in the middes of his riuers, which hath saide, The riuer is mine, and I haue made it for my selfe.
Ezekiel 29:4	But I will put hookes in thy chawes, and I will cause the fish of thy riuers to sticke vnto thy scales, and I will drawe thee out of the middes of thy riuers, and all the fishe of thy riuers shall sticke vnto thy scales.
Ezekiel 29:5	And I will leaue thee in the wildernes, both thee and al the fish of thy riuers: thou shalt fal vpon ye open field: thou shalt not be brought together, nor gathered: for I haue giue thee for meat to the beasts of the field, and to the foules of heauen.
Ezekiel 29:6	And al the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am the Lord, because they haue ben a staffe of reede to the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 29:7	When they tooke holde of thee with their hand, thou diddest breake, and rent all their shoulder: and when they leaned vpon thee, thou brakest and madest all their loynes to stand vpright.
Ezekiel 29:8	Therefore thus sayeth the Lord God, Beholde, I will bring a sworde vpon thee, and destroy man and beast out of thee,
Ezekiel 29:9	And the land of Egypt shalbe desolate, and waste, and they shall know that I am ye Lord: because he hath said, The riuer is mine, and I haue made it,
Ezekiel 29:10	Behold, therefore I come vpon thee, and vpon thy riuers, and I will make the land of Egypt vtterly waste and desolate from the towre of Seueneh, euen vnto the borders of the blacke Mores.
Ezekiel 29:11	No foote of man shall passe by it, nor foote of beast shall passe by it, neither shall it be inhabited fourtie yeeres.
Ezekiel 29:12	And I wil make the land of Egypt desolate in the middes of the countries, that are desolate, and her cities shall be desolate among the cities that are desolate, for fourtie yeeres: and I wil scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and wil disperse them through the countreis.
Ezekiel 29:13	Yet thus saieth the Lord God, At the end of fourtie yeeres will I gather the Egyptians from the people, where they were scattered,
Ezekiel 29:14	And I wil bring againe the captiuitie of Egypt, and will cause them to returne into the land of Pathros, into the lande of their habitation, and they shalbe there a small kingdome.
Ezekiel 29:15	It shall be the smallest of the kingdomes, neither shall it exalt it selfe any more aboue the nations: for I will diminish them, that they shall no more rule the nations.
Ezekiel 29:16	And it shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, to bring their iniquitie to remembrance by looking after them, so shall they knowe, that I am the Lord God.
Ezekiel 29:17	In the seuen and twentieth yeere also in the first moneth, and in the first day of the moneth, came the word of the Lord vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 29:18	Sonne of man, Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel caused his armie to serue a great seruice against Tyrus: euery head was made balde, and euery shoulder was made bare: yet had he no wages, nor his armie for Tyrus, for the seruice that he serued against it.
Ezekiel 29:19	Therefore thus sayth the Lord God, Beholde, I will giue the land of Egypt vnto Nebuchad-nezzar the King of Babel, and he shall take her multitude, and spoyle her spoyle, and take her pray, and it shall be the wages for his armie.
Ezekiel 29:20	I haue giuen him the land of Egypt for his labour, that he serued against it, because they wrought for me, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 29:21	In that day will I cause the horne of the house of Israel to growe, and I will giue thee an open mouth in the middes of them, and they shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 30:1	The worde of the Lord came againe vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 30:2	Sonne of man, prophesie, and say, Thus sayth the Lord God, Howle and cry, Wo be vnto this day.
Ezekiel 30:3	For the day is neere, and the day of the Lord is at hand, a cloudie day, and it shall be the time of the heathen.
Ezekiel 30:4	And the sword shall come vpon Egypt, and feare shall be in Ethiopia, when the slaine shall fall in Egypt, when they shall take away her multitude, and when her foundations shall be broken downe.
Ezekiel 30:5	Ethiopia and Phut, and Lud, and all the common people, and Cub, and the men of the land, that is in league, shall fall with them by the sword.
Ezekiel 30:6	Thus sayth the Lord, They also that mainteine Egypt, shall fall, and the pride of her power shall come downe: from the towre of Seueneh shall they fall by the sword, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 30:7	And they shall be desolate in the middes of the countries that are desolate, and her cities shall be in the middes of the cities that are wasted.
Ezekiel 30:8	And they shall knowe that I am the Lord, when I haue set a fire in Egypt, and when all her helpers shall be destroyed.
Ezekiel 30:9	In that day shall there messengers go forth from me in shippes, to make the carelesse Mores aftaide, and feare shall come vpon them, as in the day of Egypt: for loe, it commeth.
Ezekiel 30:10	Thus sayth the Lord God, I will also make the multitude of Egypt to cease by the hand of Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel.
Ezekiel 30:11	For he and his people with him, euen the terrible nations shall be brought to destroy the land: and they shall drawe their swordes against Egypt, and fill the land with the slaine.
Ezekiel 30:12	And I will make the riuers drye, and fell the land into the hands of the wicked, and I will make the land waste, and all that therein is by the hands of strangers: I the Lord haue spoken it.
Ezekiel 30:13	Thus saith the Lord God, I will also destroy the idoles, and I will cause their idoles to cease out of Noph, and there shall be no more a prince of the land of Egypt, and I will send a feare in the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel 30:14	And I will make Pathros desolate, and will set fire in Zoan, and I will execute iudgement in No.
Ezekiel 30:15	And I will powre my wrath vpon Sin, which is the strength of Egypt: and I will destroy the multitude of No.
Ezekiel 30:16	And I will set fire in Egypt: Sin shall haue great sorowe and No shalbe destroyed, and Noph shall haue sorowes dayly.
Ezekiel 30:17	The yong men of Auen, and of Phibeseth shall fall by the sworde: and these cities shall goe into captiuitie.
Ezekiel 30:18	At Tehaphnehes the day shall restraine his light, when I shall breake there the barres of Egypt: and when the pompe of her power shall cease in her, the cloude shall couer her, and her daughters shall goe into captiuitie.
Ezekiel 30:19	Thus will I execute iudgements in Egypt, and they shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 30:20	And in the eleuenth yeere, in the first moneth, and in the seuenth day of the moneth, the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 30:21	Sonne of man, I haue broken the arme of Pharaoh King of Egypt: and lo, it shall not be boud vp to be healed, neither shall they put a roule to bind it, and so make it strong, to hold the sworde.
Ezekiel 30:22	Therefore thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I come against Pharaoh King of Egypt, and will breake his arme, that was strong, but is broken, and I will cause the sworde to fall out of his hande.
Ezekiel 30:23	And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countreys.
Ezekiel 30:24	And I will strengthen the arme of the King of Babel, and put my sworde in his hand, but I will breake Pharaohs armes, and he shall cast out sighings, as the sighings of him, that is wounded before him.
Ezekiel 30:25	But I will strengthen the armes of the king of Babel, and the armes of Pharaoh shall fall downe, and they shall knowe, that I am the Lord, when I shall put my sworde into the hand of the King of Babel, and he shall stretch it out vpon the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel 30:26	And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them among ye countreys, and they shall knowe, that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 31:1	And in the eleuenth yeere, in the third moneth, and in the first day of the moneth the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 31:2	Sonne of man, speake vnto Pharaoh King of Egypt, and to his multitude, Whom art thou like in thy greatnesse?
Ezekiel 31:3	Beholde, Asshur was like a cedar in Lebanon with faire branches, and with thicke shadowing boughes, and shot vp very hye, and his toppe was among the thicke boughes.
Ezekiel 31:4	The waters nourished him, and the deepe exalted him on hie with her riuers running round about his plants, and sent out her litle riuers vnto all the trees of the fielde.
Ezekiel 31:5	Therefore his height was exalted aboue all the trees of the fielde, and his boughes were multiplied, and his branches were long, because of the multitude of the waters, which the deepe sent out.
Ezekiel 31:6	All the foules of the heauen made their nestes in his boughes, and vnder his branches did all the beastes of the fielde bring foorth their yong, and vnder his shadowe dwelt all mightie nations.
Ezekiel 31:7	Thus was he faire in his greatnesse, and in the length of his branches: for his roote was neere great waters.
Ezekiel 31:8	The cedars in the garden of God coulde not hide him: no firre tree was like his branches, and the chessenut trees were not like his boughes: all the trees in the garden of God were not like vnto him in his beautie.
Ezekiel 31:9	I made him faire by the multitude of his branches: so that all the trees of Eden, that were in the garden of God, enuied him.
Ezekiel 31:10	Therefore thus sayeth the Lord God, Because he is lift vp on high, and hath shot vp his toppe among the thicke boughes, and his heart is lift vp in his height,
Ezekiel 31:11	I haue therefore deliuered him into the handes of the mightiest among the heathen: he shall handle him, for I haue cast him away for his wickednesse.
Ezekiel 31:12	And the strangers haue destroyed him, euen the terrible nations, and they haue left him vpon the mountaines, and in all the valleis his branches are fallen, and his boughes are broken by all the riuers of the land: and all the people of the earth are departed from his shadowe, and haue forsaken him.
Ezekiel 31:13	Vpon his ruine shall all the foules of the heauen remaine, and all the beastes of the fielde shall be vpon his branches,
Ezekiel 31:14	So that none of all the trees by the waters shalbe exalted by their height, neither shall shoote vp their toppe among the thicke boughes, neither shall their leaues stand vp in their height, which drinke so much water: for they are all deliuered vnto death in the nether partes of the earth in the middes of the children of men among them that goe downe to the pit.
Ezekiel 31:15	Thus saith the Lord God, In the day when he went downe to hell, I caused them to mourne, and I couered the deepe for him, and I did restreine the floods thereof, and the great waters were stayed: I caused Lebanon to mourne for him, and all the trees of the fielde fainted.
Ezekiel 31:16	I made the nations to shake at the sound of his fall, when I cast him downe to hell with them that descend into the pit, and all the excellent trees of Eden, and the best of Lebanon: euen all that are nourished with waters, shall be comforted in the nether partes of the earth.
Ezekiel 31:17	They also went downe to hell with him vnto them that be slaine with the sworde, and his arme, and they that dwelt vnder his shadowe in the middes of the heathen.
Ezekiel 31:18	To whom art thou thus like in glorie and in greatnesse among the trees of Eden? yet thou shalt be cast downe with the trees of Eden vnto the nether partes of the earth: thou shalt sleepe in the middes of the vncircumcised, with them that be slaine by the sworde: this is Pharaoh and all his multitude, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 32:1	And in the twelfth yeere in the twelfth moneth, and in the first day of the moneth, the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 32:2	Sonne of man, take vp a lamentation for Pharaoh King of Egypt, and say vnto him, Thou art like a lyon of the nations and art as a dragon in the sea: thou castedst out thy riuers and troubledst the waters with thy feete, and stampedst in their riuers.
Ezekiel 32:3	Thus sayth the Lord God, I will therefore spread my net ouer thee with a great multitude of people, and they shall make thee come vp into my net.
Ezekiel 32:4	Then will I leaue thee vpon the land, and I will cast thee vpon the open field, and I wil cause all the foules of the heauen to remaine vpon thee, and I will fill all the beastes of the field with thee.
Ezekiel 32:5	And I will lay thy flesh vpon the mountaines, and fill the valleys with thine height.
Ezekiel 32:6	I will also water with thy blood the land wherein thou swimmest, euen to ye mountaines, and the riuers shall be full of thee.
Ezekiel 32:7	And when I shall put thee out, I will couer the heauen, and make the starres thereof darke: I will couer the sunne with a cloude, and the moone shall not giue her light.
Ezekiel 32:8	All the lightes of heauen will I make darke for thee, and bring darkenesse vpon thy lande, sayeth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 32:9	I will also trouble the heartes of many people, when I shall bring thy destruction among the nations and vpon the countries which thou hast not knowen.
Ezekiel 32:10	Yea, I will make many people amased at thee, and their Kings shalbe astonished with feare for thee, when I shall make my sworde to glitter against their faces, and they shall be afraide at euery moment: euery man for his owne life in the day of thy fall.
Ezekiel 32:11	For thus sayth the Lord God, The sworde of the King of Babel shall come vpon thee.
Ezekiel 32:12	By the swordes of the mightie will I cause thy multitude to fall: they all shall be terrible nations, and they shall destroy the pompe of Egypt, and all the multitude thereof shalbe consumed.
Ezekiel 32:13	I will destroy also all the beastes thereof from the great watersides, neither shall the foote of man trouble them any more, nor the hooues of beast trouble them.
Ezekiel 32:14	Then will I make their waters deepe, and cause their riuers to runne like oyle, sayeth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 32:15	When I shall make the land of Egypt desolate, and the countrey with all that is therein, shall be laid waste: when I shall smite all them which dwell therein, then shall they know that I am ye Lord.
Ezekiel 32:16	This is the mourning wherewith they shall lament her: the daughters of the nations shall lament her: they shall lament for Egypt, and for all her multitude, sayeth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 32:17	In the twelfth yeere also in the fifteenth day of the moneth, came the worde of the Lord vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 32:18	Sonne of man, lament for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them downe, euen them and the daughters of the mighty nations vnto the nether partes of the earth, with them that goe downe into the pit.
Ezekiel 32:19	Whome doest thou passe in beautie? goe downe and sleepe with the vncircumcised.
Ezekiel 32:20	They shall fall in the middes of them that are slaine by the sword: shee is deliuered to the sword: draw her downe, and all her multitude.
Ezekiel 32:21	The most mighty and strong shall speake to him out of the mids of hell with them that helpe her: they are gone downe and sleepe with the vncircumcised that be slaine by the sworde.
Ezekiel 32:22	Asshur is there and all his companie: their graues are about him: all they are slaine and fallen by the sworde.
Ezekiel 32:23	Whose graues are made in the side of the pit, and his multitude are rounde about his graue: all they are slaine and fallen by the sworde, which caused feare to be in the land of the liuing.
Ezekiel 32:24	There is Elam and all his multitude round about his graue: al they are slaine and fallen by the sword which are gone downe with the vncircumcised into the nether parts of the earth, which caused themselues to be feared in the land of the liuing, yet haue they borne their shame with them that are gone downe to the pit.
Ezekiel 32:25	They haue made his bed in the mids of the slaine with al his multitude: their graues are round about him: all these vncircucised are slaine by the sworde: though they haue caused their feare in the land of ye liuing, yet haue they borne their shame with them that goe downe to the pitte: they are laide in the middes of them, that be slaine.
Ezekiel 32:26	There is Meshech, Tubal, and all their multitude, their graues are round about them: al these vncircumcised were slaine by the sworde, though they caused their feare to be in ye land of the liuing.
Ezekiel 32:27	And they shall not lie with the valiant of the vncircumcised, that are fallen, which are gone down to the graue, with their weapons of warre, and haue laied their swords vnder their heads, but their iniquitie shalbe vpon their bones: because they were the feare of the mighty in the lande of the liuing.
Ezekiel 32:28	Yea, thou shalt be broken in the middes of the vncircumcised, and lie with them that are slaine by the sworde.
Ezekiel 32:29	There is Edom, his Kings, and all his princes, which with their strength are laied by them that were slaine by the sworde: they shall sleepe with the vncircumcised, and with them that goe downe to the pit.
Ezekiel 32:30	There be al the princes of the North, with al the Zidonians, which are gone downe with the slaine, with their feare: they are ashamed of their strength, and the vncircumcised sleepe with them that be slaine by the sword, and beare their shame with them that goe downe to the pit.
Ezekiel 32:31	Pharaoh shall see them, and hee shall be comforted ouer all his multitude: Pharaoh, and all his armie shall be slaine by the sword, saieth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 32:32	For I haue caused my feare to be in the lande of the liuing: and he shall be laid in the mids of the vncircumcised with them, that are slaine by the sword, euen Pharaoh and all his multitude, sayeth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 33:1	Again, the woorde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 33:2	Sonne of man, speake to the children of thy people, and say vnto them, When I bring the sworde vpon a lande, if the people of the lande take a man from among them, and make him their watchman,
Ezekiel 33:3	If when hee seeth the sworde come vpon ye land, he blow the trumpet, and warne the people,
Ezekiel 33:4	Then hee that heareth the sounde of the trumpet, and will not bee warned, if the sworde come, and take him away, his blood shall be vpon his owne head.
Ezekiel 33:5	For he heard the sound of the trumpet, and woulde not bee admonished: therefore his blood shall be vpon him: but he that receiueth warning, shall saue his life.
Ezekiel 33:6	But if the watchman see the sworde come, and blowe not the trumpet, and the people be not warned: if the sworde come, and take any person from among them, he is taken away for his iniquitie, but his blood will I require at the watchmans hande.
Ezekiel 33:7	So thou, O sonne of man, I haue made thee a watchman vnto the house of Israel: therefore thou shalt heare the woorde at my mouth, and admonish them from me.
Ezekiel 33:8	When I shall say vnto the wicked, O wicked man, thou shalt die the death, if thou doest not speake, and admonish the wicked of his way, that wicked man shall die for his iniquitie, but his blood will I require at thine hand.
Ezekiel 33:9	Neuerthelesse, If thou warne the wicked of his way, to turne from it, if he doe not turne from his way, he shall die for his iniquitie, but thou hast deliuered thy soule.
Ezekiel 33:10	Therefore, O thou sonne of man, speake vnto the house of Israel, Thus yee speake and say, If our transgressions and our sinnes bee vpon vs, and we are consumed because of them, howe should we then liue?
Ezekiel 33:11	Say vnto them, As I liue, sayeth the Lord God, I desire not the death of the wicked, but that the wicked turne from his way and liue: turne you, turne you from your euill waies, for why will ye die, O ye house of Israel?
Ezekiel 33:12	Therefore thou sonne of man, saye vnto the children of thy people, The righteousnesse of the righteous shall not deliuer him in the day of his transgression, nor the wickednesse of the wicked shall cause him to fall therein, in the day that he returneth from his wickednesse, neither shall the righteous liue for his righteousnesse in the day that he sinneth.
Ezekiel 33:13	When I shall say vnto the righteous, that he shall surely liue, if he trust to his owne righteousnes, and commit iniquitie, all his righteousnes shall be no more remembred, but for his iniquitie that he hath committed, he shall die for the same.
Ezekiel 33:14	Againe when I shall say vnto the wicked, thou shalt die the death, if he turne from his sinne, and doe that which is lawfull and right,
Ezekiel 33:15	To wit, if the wicked restore the pledge, and giue againe that he had robbed, and walke in the statutes of life, without committing iniquitie, he shall surely liue, and not die.
Ezekiel 33:16	None of his sinnes that he hath comitted, shall be mentioned vnto him: because he hath done that, which is lawful, and right, he shall surely liue.
Ezekiel 33:17	Yet the children of thy people say, The way of the Lord is not equall: but their owne way is vnequall.
Ezekiel 33:18	When the righteous turneth from his righteousnesse, and committeth iniquitie, he shall euen die thereby.
Ezekiel 33:19	But if the wicked returne from his wickednesse, and doe that which is lawfull and right, hee shall liue thereby.
Ezekiel 33:20	Yet yee say, The way of the Lord is not equall. O ye house of Israel, I will iudge you euery one after his waies.
Ezekiel 33:21	Also in the twelfth yere of our captiuitie, in the tenth moneth, and in the fift day of the moneth, one that had escaped out of Ierusalem, came vnto me, and said, The citie is smitten.
Ezekiel 33:22	Now the hand of the Lord had bene vpon me in ye euening afore hee that had escaped, came, and had opened my mouth vntill he came to me in the morning: and when hee had opened my mouth, I was no more dumme.
Ezekiel 33:23	Againe the worde of the Lord came vnto me, and saide,
Ezekiel 33:24	Sonne of man, these that dwel in the desolate places of the land of Israel, talke and say, Abraham was but one, and hee possessed the lande: but we are many, therefore the lande shall be giuen vs in possession.
Ezekiel 33:25	Wherefore say vnto them, Thus saieth the Lord God, Ye eate with the blood, and lift vp your eyes towarde your idoles, and sheade blood: should ye then possesse the land?
Ezekiel 33:26	Ye leane vpon your swordes: ye worke abomination, and yee defile euery one his neighbours wife: should ye then possesse the land?
Ezekiel 33:27	Say thus vnto them, Thus saieth the Lord God, As I liue, so surely they that are in the desolate places, shall fall by the sword: and him that is in the open field, will I giue vnto the beasts to be deuoured: and they that be in the forts and in the caues, shall die of the pestilence.
Ezekiel 33:28	For I will lay the land desolate and waste, and the pompe of her strength shall cease: and the moutaines of Israel shalbe desolate, and none shall passe through.
Ezekiel 33:29	Then shall they know that I am the Lord, when I haue laid ye land desolate and wast, because of al their abominations, that they haue committed.
Ezekiel 33:30	Also thou sonne of man, the children of thy people that talke of thee by the wals and in the dores of houses, and speake one to another, euery one to his brother, saying, Come, I pray you, and heare what is the word that commeth from the Lord.
Ezekiel 33:31	For they come vnto thee, as the people vseth to come: and my people sit before thee, and heare thy wordes, but they will not doe them: for with their mouthes they make iestes, and their heart goeth after their couetousnesse.
Ezekiel 33:32	And loe, thou art vnto them, as a iesting song of one that hath a pleasant voyce, and can sing well: for they heare thy woordes, but they doe them not.
Ezekiel 33:33	And when this commeth to passe (for loe, it will come) then shall they know, that a Prophet hath bene among them.
Ezekiel 34:1	And the word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 34:2	Sonne of man, prophesie against the shepherdes of Israel, prophesie and say vnto them, Thus saieth the Lord God vnto the shepherds, Wo be vnto the shepherds of Israel, that feede them selues: should not the shepherds feede the flockes?
Ezekiel 34:3	Yee eate the fat, and yee clothe you with the wooll: yee kill them that are fed, but ye feede not the sheepe.
Ezekiel 34:4	The weake haue ye not strengthened: the sicke haue ye not healed, neither haue ye bounde vp the broken, nor brought againe that which was driuen away, neither haue yee sought that which was lost, but with crueltie, and with rigour haue yee ruled them.
Ezekiel 34:5	And they were scattered without a shepherde: and when they were dispersed, they were deuoured of all the beastes of the fielde.
Ezekiel 34:6	My sheepe wandred through all the mountaines, and vpon euery hie hill: yea, my flocke was scattered through al the earth, and none did seeke or search after them.
Ezekiel 34:7	Therefore ye shepherds, heare the woorde of the Lord.
Ezekiel 34:8	As I liue, sayeth the Lord God, surely because my flocke was spoyled, and my sheepe were deuoured of all the beasts of the fielde, hauing no shepherde, neither did my shepherdes seeke my sheepe, but the shepherdes fedde them selues, and fedde not my sheepe,
Ezekiel 34:9	Therefore, heare ye the word of the Lord, O ye shepherds.
Ezekiel 34:10	Thus saieth the Lord God, Behold, I come against the shepherds, and will require my sheepe at their hands, and cause them to cease from feeding the sheepe: neither shall the shepherds feede them selues any more: for I wil deliuer my sheepe from their mouthes, and they shall no more deuoure them.
Ezekiel 34:11	For thus sayeth the Lord God, Beholde, I will search my sheepe, and seeke them out.
Ezekiel 34:12	As a shepherd searcheth out his flocke, when he hath bene among his sheepe that are scattered, so wil I seeke out my sheepe and wil deliuer them out of all places, where they haue beene scattered in the cloudie and darke day,
Ezekiel 34:13	And I will bring them out from the people, and gather them from the countreis, and will bring them to their owne lande, and feede them vpon the mountaines of Israel, by the riuers, and in all the inhabited places of the countrey.
Ezekiel 34:14	I will feede them in a good pasture, and vpon the hie mountaines of Israel shall their folde be: there shall they lie in a good folde and in fat pasture shall they feede vpon the mountaines of Israel.
Ezekiel 34:15	I will feede my sheepe, and bring them to their rest, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 34:16	I will seeke that which was lost, and bring againe that which was driue away, and will binde vp that which was broken, and will strengthen the weake but I wil destroy the fat and the strong, and I will feede them with iudgement.
Ezekiel 34:17	Also you my sheepe, Thus saieth the Lord God, behold, I iudge betweene sheepe, and sheepe, betweene the rammes and the goates.
Ezekiel 34:18	Seemeth it a small thing vnto you to haue eaten vp the good pasture, but yee must treade downe with your feete the residue of your pasture? and to haue drunke of the deepe waters, but yee must trouble the residue with your feete?
Ezekiel 34:19	And my sheepe eate that which yee haue troden with your feete, and drinke that which ye haue troubled with your feete.
Ezekiel 34:20	Therefore thus sayth the Lord God vnto them, behold, I, euen I wil iudge betweene the fat sheepe and the leane sheepe.
Ezekiel 34:21	Because ye haue thrust with side and with shoulder, and pusht al the weake with your hornes, till ye haue scattered them abroade,
Ezekiel 34:22	Therefore wil I helpe my sheepe, and they shall no more be spoyled, and I wil iudge betweene sheepe and sheepe.
Ezekiel 34:23	And I wil set vp a shepherd ouer them, and he shall feede them, euen my seruant Dauid, he shall feede them, and he shalbe their shepherd.
Ezekiel 34:24	And I the Lord will be their God, and my seruant Dauid shalbe the prince amog them. I the Lord haue spoken it.
Ezekiel 34:25	And I will make with them a couenant of peace, and will cause the euil beastes to cease out of the land: and they shall dwel safely in the wildernesse, and sleepe in the woods.
Ezekiel 34:26	And I wil set them, as a blessing, euen roud about my mountaine: and I will cause rayne to come downe in due season, and there shalbe raine of blessing.
Ezekiel 34:27	And the tree of the fielde shall yeeld her fruite, and the earth shall giue her fruite, and they shalbe safe in their land, and shall know that I am the Lord, when I haue broken the cordes of their yoke, and deliuered them out of the hands of those that serued themselues of them.
Ezekiel 34:28	And they shall no more be spoyled of the heathen, neither shall the beastes of the land deuoure them, but they shall dwell safely and none shall make them afrayd.
Ezekiel 34:29	And I will rayse vp for them a plant of renoume, and they shalbe no more consumed with hunger in the land, neither beare the reproche of the heathen any more.
Ezekiel 34:30	Thus shall they vnderstande, that I the Lord their God am with them, and that they, euen the house of Israel, are my people, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 34:31	And yee my sheepe, the sheepe of my pasture are men, and I am your God, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 35:1	Moveover the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 35:2	Sonne of man, Set thy face against mount Seir, and prophesie against it,
Ezekiel 35:3	And say vnto it, Thus sayth the Lord God, Behold, O mount Seir, I come against thee, and I wil stretch out mine hand against thee, and I will make thee desolate and waste.
Ezekiel 35:4	I wil lay thy cities waste, and thou shalt be desolate, and thou shalt knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 35:5	Because thou hast had a perpetuall hatred and hast put the children of Israel to flight by the force of the sword in the time of their calamitie, when their iniquitie had an ende,
Ezekiel 35:6	Therefore as I liue, sayth the Lord God, I wil prepare thee vnto blood, and blood shall pursue thee: except thou hate blood, euen blood shall pursue thee.
Ezekiel 35:7	Thus will I make mount Seir desolate and waste, and cut off from it him that passeth out and him that returneth.
Ezekiel 35:8	And I will fill his mountaines with his slayne men: in thine hilles, and in thy valleys and in all thy riuers shall they fall, that are slayne with the sworde.
Ezekiel 35:9	I wil make thee perpetual desolations, and thy cities shall not returne, and ye shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 35:10	Because thou hast said, These two nations, and these two countreys shalbe mine, and we wil possesse them (seeing the Lord was there)
Ezekiel 35:11	Therefore as I liue, sayth the Lord God, I wil euen do according to thy wrath, and according to thine indignation which thou hast vsed in thine hatred against them: and I wil make my selfe knowen among them whe I haue iudged thee.
Ezekiel 35:12	And thou shalt know, that I the Lord haue heard all thy blasphemies which thou hast spoken against the mountaines of Israel, saying, They lye waste, they are giuen vs to be deuoured.
Ezekiel 35:13	Thus with your mouthes ye haue boasted against me, and haue multiplied your words against me: I haue heard them.
Ezekiel 35:14	Thus sayth the Lord God, So shall all the world reioyce when I shall make thee desolate.
Ezekiel 35:15	As thou diddest reioyce at the inheritance of the house of Israel, because it was desolate, so will I doe vnto thee: thou shalt be desolate, O mount Seir, and all Idumea wholly, and they shall know, that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 36:1	Also thou sonne of man, prophesie vnto the mountaines of Israel, and say, Ye mountaines of Israel, heare the word of the Lord.
Ezekiel 36:2	Thus saith the Lord God, because the enemie hath sayde against you, Aha, euen the hye places of the world are ours in possession,
Ezekiel 36:3	Therefore prophesie, and say, Thus sayth the Lord God, Because that they haue made you desolate, and swallowed you vp on euery side, that ye might be a possession vnto the residue of the heathen, and ye are come vnto the lippes and tongues of men, and vnto the reproch of the people,
Ezekiel 36:4	Therefore ye mountaines of Israel, heare the worde of the Lord God, Thus sayth the Lord God to the mountaines and to the hilles, to the riuers, and to the valleys, and to the waste, and desolate places, and to the cities that are forsaken: which are spoyled and had in derision of the residue of the heathen that are round about.
Ezekiel 36:5	Therefore thus saith the Lord God, Surely in the fire of mine indignation haue I spoken against the residue of the heathen, and against all Idumea, which haue taken my lande for their possession, with the ioy of all their heart, and with despitefull mindes to cast it out for a pray.
Ezekiel 36:6	Prophesie therfore vpon the land of Israel, and say vnto the mountaines, and to the hilles, to the riuers, and to the valleys, Thus sayth the Lord God, Behold, I haue spoken in mine indignation, and in my wrath, because yee haue suffered the shame of the heathen,
Ezekiel 36:7	Therefore thus saith the Lord God, I haue lifted vp mine hand, surely the heathen that are about you, shall beare their shame.
Ezekiel 36:8	But you, O mountaines of Israel, yee shall shoote forth your branches, and bring foorth your fruite to my people of Israel: for they are ready to come.
Ezekiel 36:9	For behold, I come vnto you, and I wil turne vnto you, and ye shalbe tilled and sowen.
Ezekiel 36:10	And I wil multiply the men vpon you, euen all the house of Israel wholly, and the cities shalbe inhabited, and the desolate places shalbe builded.
Ezekiel 36:11	And I wil multiply vpon you man and beast, and they shall encrease, and bring fruite, and I will cause you to dwell after your olde estate, and I will bestowe benefites vpon you more then at the first, and ye shall know that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 36:12	Yea, I wil cause men to walke vpon you, euen my people Israel, and they shall possesse you, and ye shalbe their inheritance, and ye shall no more henceforth depriue them of men.
Ezekiel 36:13	Thus sayth the Lord God, because they say vnto you, Thou land deuourest vp men, and hast bene a waster of thy people,
Ezekiel 36:14	Therefore thou shalt deuoure men no more, neither waste thy people henceforth, sayth the Lord God,
Ezekiel 36:15	Neither will I cause men to heare in thee the shame of the heathen any more, neither shalt thou beare the reproche of the people any more, neither shalt cause thy folke to fal any more, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 36:16	Moreouer the word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 36:17	Sonne of man, when the house of Israel dwelt in their owne lande, they defiled it by their owne wayes, and by their deedes: their way was before me as the filthinesse of the menstruous.
Ezekiel 36:18	Wherfore I powred my wrath vpon them, for the blood that they had shed in the land, and for their idoles, wherewith they had polluted it.
Ezekiel 36:19	And I scattered them among the heathen, and they were dispersed through the countries for according to their wayes, and according to their deedes, I iudged them.
Ezekiel 36:20	And when they entred vnto the heathen, whither they went, they polluted mine holy Name, when they sayd of them, These are the people of the Lord, and are gone out of his land.
Ezekiel 36:21	But I fauoured mine holy Name which the house of Israel had polluted among the heathen, whither they went.
Ezekiel 36:22	Therfore say vnto the house of Israel, Thus saith ye Lord God, I doe not this for your sakes, O house of Israel, but for mine holy Names sake, which yee polluted among the heathen whither ye went.
Ezekiel 36:23	And I wil sanctifie my great Name, which was polluted among the heathen, among whome you haue polluted it, and the heathen shall know that I am the Lord, sayth the Lord God, when I shalbe sanctified in you before their eyes.
Ezekiel 36:24	For I will take you from among the heathen, and gather you out of all countries, and will bring you into your owne land.
Ezekiel 36:25	Then wil I powre cleane water vpon you, and ye shalbe cleane: yea, from all your filthines, and from all your idoles wil I clense you.
Ezekiel 36:26	A newe heart also will I giue you, and a new spirit wil I put within you, and I will take away the stonie heart out of your body, and I will giue you an heart of flesh.
Ezekiel 36:27	And I will put my spirite within you, and cause you to walke in my statutes, and ye shall keepe my iudgements and do them.
Ezekiel 36:28	And ye shall dwell in the land, that I gaue to your fathers, and ye shalbe my people, and I will be your God.
Ezekiel 36:29	I will also deliuer you from all your filthinesse, and I will call for corne, and will increase it, and lay no famine vpon you.
Ezekiel 36:30	For I will multiplie the fruite of the trees, and the increase of the fielde, that ye shall beare no more the reproch of famine among the heathen.
Ezekiel 36:31	Then shall ye remember your owne wicked wayes, and your deedes that were not good, and shall iudge your selues worthie to haue bene destroyed for your iniquities, and for your abominations.
Ezekiel 36:32	Be it knowen vnto you that I do not this for your sakes, sayth the Lord God: therefore, O ye house of Israel, be ashamed, and confounded for your owne wayes.
Ezekiel 36:33	Thus sayth the Lord God, What time as I shall haue clensed you from all your iniquities, I will cause you to dwel in the cities, and the desolate places shalbe builded.
Ezekiel 36:34	And the desolate land shalbe tilled, whereas it lay waste in the sight of all that passed by.
Ezekiel 36:35	For they sayd, This waste land was like the garden of Eden, and these waste and desolate and ruinous cities were strong, and were inhabited.
Ezekiel 36:36	Then the residue of the heathen that are left round about you, shall know that I the Lord builde the ruinous places, and plant the desolate places: I the Lord haue spoken it, and wil do it.
Ezekiel 36:37	Thus saith the Lord God, I will yet for this be sought of ye house of Israel, to performe it vnto them: I wil encrease them with men like a flocke.
Ezekiel 36:38	As the holy flocke, as the flocke of Ierusalem in their solemne feastes, so shall the desolate cities be filled with flockes of men, and they shall know, that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 37:1	The hand of the Lord was vpon me, and caryed me out in ye spirit of ye Lord, and set me downe in ye mids of the field, which was full of bones.
Ezekiel 37:2	And he led me round about by them, and beholde, they were very many in the open fielde, and lo, they were very drie.
Ezekiel 37:3	And he sayde vnto me, Sonne of man, can these bones liue? And I answered, O Lord God, thou knowest.
Ezekiel 37:4	Againe he sayde vnto me, Prophecie vpon these bones and say vnto them, O ye dry bones, heare the word of the Lord.
Ezekiel 37:5	Thus saith the Lord God vnto these bones, Behold, I wil cause breath to enter into you, and ye shall liue.
Ezekiel 37:6	And I will lay sinewes vpon you, and make flesh growe vpon you, and couer you with skinne, and put breath in you, that ye may liue, and yee shall know that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 37:7	So I prophecied, as I was commanded: and as I prophecied, there was a noyse, and beholde, there was a shaking, and the bones came together, bone to his bone.
Ezekiel 37:8	And when I beheld, loe, the sinewes, and the flesh grewe vpon them, and aboue, the skinne couered them, but there was no breath in them.
Ezekiel 37:9	Then sayd he vnto me, Prophecie vnto the winde: prophecie, sonne of man, and say to the winde, Thus sayth the Lord God, Come from the foure windes, O breath, and breathe vpon these slayne, that they may liue.
Ezekiel 37:10	So I prophecied as hee had commanded me: and the breath came into them, and they liued, and stood vp vpon their feete, an exceeding great armie.
Ezekiel 37:11	Then he sayd vnto me, Sonne of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, Our bones are dried, and our hope is gone, and we are cleane cut off.
Ezekiel 37:12	Therefore prophecie, and say vnto them, Thus saith the Lord God, Beholde, my people, I will open your graues, and cause you to come vp out of your sepulchres, and bring you into the lande of Israel,
Ezekiel 37:13	And yee shall knowe that I am the Lord, when I haue opened your graues, O my people, and brought you vp out of your sepulchres,
Ezekiel 37:14	And shall put my Spirit in you, and ye shall liue, and I shall place you in your owne land: then yee shall knowe that I the Lord haue spoken it, and performed it, sayth the Lord.
Ezekiel 37:15	The word of the Lord came againe vnto me, saying,
Ezekiel 37:16	Moreouer thou sonne of man, take thee a piece of wood, and write vpon it, Vnto Iudah, and to the children of Israel his companions the take another piece of wood, and write vpon it, Vnto Ioseph the tree of Ephraim, and to al the house of Israel his companions.
Ezekiel 37:17	And thou shalt ioyne the one to another into one tree, and they shalbe as one in thine hand.
Ezekiel 37:18	And when the children of thy people shall speake vnto thee, saying, Wilt thou not shewe vs what thou meanest by these?
Ezekiel 37:19	Thou shalt answere them, Thus sayeth the Lord God, Behold, I wil take the tree of Ioseph, which is in the hande of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel his fellowes, and will put them with him, euen with the tree of Iudah, and make them one tree, and they shalbe one in mine hand.
Ezekiel 37:20	And the pieces of wood, whereon thou writest, shalbe in thine hand, in their sight.
Ezekiel 37:21	And say vnto them, Thus saith the Lord God, Beholde, I will take the children of Israel from among the heathen, whither they be gone, and wil gather them on euery side, and bring them into their owne land.
Ezekiel 37:22	And I will make them one people in the lande, vpon the mountaines of Israel, and one king shalbe king to them all: and they shalbe no more two peoples, neither bee deuided any more henceforth into two kingdomes.
Ezekiel 37:23	Neither shall they bee polluted any more with their idoles, nor with their abominations, nor with any of their transgressions: but I will saue them out of all their dwelling places, wherein they haue sinned, and will clense them: so shall they be my people, and I will be their God.
Ezekiel 37:24	And Dauid my seruant shalbe king ouer them, and they all shall haue one shepheard: they shall also walke in my iudgements, and obserue my statutes, and doe them.
Ezekiel 37:25	And they shall dwell in the lande, that I haue giuen vnto Iaakob my seruant, where your fathers haue dwelt, and they shall dwel therein, euen they, and their sonnes, and their sonnes sonnes for euer, and my seruant Dauid shall bee their prince for euer.
Ezekiel 37:26	Moreouer, I will make a couenant of peace with them: it shall be an euerlasting couenant with them, and I wil place them, and multiply them, and wil set my Sanctuarie among them for euermore.
Ezekiel 37:27	My tabernacle also shalbe with them: yea, I will be their God, and they shalbe my people.
Ezekiel 37:28	Thus the heathen shall knowe, that I the Lord do sanctifie Israel, when my Sanctuarie shall be among them for euermore.
Ezekiel 38:1	And the worde of the Lord came vnto mee, saying,
Ezekiel 38:2	Sonne of man, set thy face against Gog, and against the lande of Magog, the chiefe prince of Meshech and Tubal, and prophecie against him,
Ezekiel 38:3	And say, Thus sayth the Lord God, Behold, I come against thee, O Gog the chiefe prince of Meshech and Tubal.
Ezekiel 38:4	And I wil destroy thee, and put hookes in thy chawes, and I will bring thee forth, and all thine host both horses, and horsemen, all clothed with al sorts of armour, eue a great multitude with bucklers, and shieldes, all handling swords.
Ezekiel 38:5	They of Paras, of Cush, and Phut with the, euen all they that beare shielde and helmet.
Ezekiel 38:6	Gomer and all his bands, and the house of Togarmah of the North quarters, and al his bands, and much people with thee.
Ezekiel 38:7	Prepare thy selfe, and make thee ready, both thou, and al thy multitude, that are assembled vnto thee, and be thou their sauegard.
Ezekiel 38:8	After many dayes thou shalt bee visited: for in the latter yeres thou shalt come into the land, that hath bene destroyed with the sworde, and is gathered out of many people vpon the mountaines of Israel, which haue long lien waste: yet they haue bene brought out of the people, and they shall dwell all safe.
Ezekiel 38:9	Thou shalt ascende and come vp like a tempest, and shalt be like a cloude to couer the land, both thou, and all thy bandes, and many people with thee.
Ezekiel 38:10	Thus saith the Lord God, Euen at ye same time shall many things come into thy minde, and thou shalt thinke euil thoughts.
Ezekiel 38:11	And thou shalt say, I wil go vp to the land that hath no walled towres: I will goe to them that are at rest, and dwell in safetie, which dwell all without walles, and haue neither barres nor gates,
Ezekiel 38:12	Thinking to spoyle the pray, and to take a bootie, to turne thine hande vpon the desolate places that are nowe inhabited, and vpon the people, that are gathered out of the nations which haue gotten cattell and goods, and dwell in the middes of the land.
Ezekiel 38:13	Sheba and Dedan, and the marchantes of Tarshish with all the lions thereof shall say vnto thee, Art thou come to spoyle the praye? hast thou gathered thy multitude to take a booty? to cary away siluer and golde, to take away cattell and goods, and to spoyle a great pray?
Ezekiel 38:14	Therefore, sonne of man, prophecie, and saye vnto Gog, Thus sayeth the Lord God, In that day when my people of Israel dwelleth safe, shalt thou not knowe it?
Ezekiel 38:15	And come from thy place out of the North partes, thou and much people with thee? all shall ride vpon horses, euen a great multitude and a mightie armie.
Ezekiel 38:16	And thou shalt come vp against my people of Israel, as a cloude to couer the land: thou shalt be in the latter dayes, and I will bring thee vpon my lande, that the heathen may knowe mee, when I shalbe sanctified in thee, O Gog, before their eyes.
Ezekiel 38:17	Thus saith the Lord God, Art not thou he, of whom I haue spoken in olde time, by ye hand of my seruants the Prophets of Israel which prophecied in those dayes and yeeres, that I woulde bring thee vpon them?
Ezekiel 38:18	At the same time also whe Gog shall come against the land of Israel, sayth the Lord God, my wrath shall arise in mine anger.
Ezekiel 38:19	For in mine indignation and in the fire of my wrath haue I spoken it: surely at that time there shalbe a great shaking in the land of Israel,
Ezekiel 38:20	So that the fishes of the sea, and the foules of the heauen, and the beasts of the field and al that moue and creepe vpon the earth, and al ye men that are vpon the earth, shall tremble at my presence, and the mountaines shalbe ouerthrowen, and the staires shall fall, and euery wall shall fall to the ground.
Ezekiel 38:21	For I will call for a sworde against him throughout all my mountaines, saith the Lord God: euery mans sword shalbe against his brother.
Ezekiel 38:22	And I will pleade against him with pestilence, and with blood, and I will cause to raine vpon him and vpon his bands, and vpon the great people, that are with him, a sore raine, and hailestones, fire, and brimstone.
Ezekiel 38:23	Thus will I be magnified, and sanctified, and knowen in the eyes of many nations, and they shall knowe, that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 39:1	Therefore, thou sonne of man, prophecie against Gog, and say, Thus sayeth the Lord God, Behold, I come against thee, O Gog, ye chiefe prince of Meshech and Tubal.
Ezekiel 39:2	And I will destroy thee and leaue but the sixt part of thee, and will cause thee to come vp from the North partes and will bring thee vpon the mountaines of Israel:
Ezekiel 39:3	And I will smite thy bowe out of thy left hand, and I will cause thine arrowes to fall out of thy right hand.
Ezekiel 39:4	Thou shalt fal vpon the mountaines of Israel, and all thy bands and the people, that is with thee: for I will giue thee vnto the birdes and to euery feathered foule and beast of the fielde to be deuoured.
Ezekiel 39:5	Thou shalt fall vpon the open fielde: for I haue spoken it, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 39:6	And I will sende a fire on Magog, and among them that dwell safely in the yles, and they shall knowe that I am the Lord.
Ezekiel 39:7	So will I make mine holy Name knowen in the middes of my people Israel, and I will not suffer them to pollute mine holy Name any more, and the heathen shall knowe that I am the Lord, the holy one of Israel.
Ezekiel 39:8	Beholde, it is come, and it is done, sayeth the Lord God: and this is the day whereof I haue spoken.
Ezekiel 39:9	And they that dwell in the cities of Israel, shall goe forth, and shall burne and set fire vpon the weapons, and on the shieldes, and bucklers, vpon the bowes, and vpon the arrowes, and vpon the staues in their handes, and vpon the speares, and they shall burne them with fire seuen yeeres.
Ezekiel 39:10	So that they shall bring no wood out of the fielde, neither cut downe any out of the forestes: for they shall burne the weapons with fire, and they shall robbe those that robbed them, and spoyle those that spoyled them, sayeth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 39:11	And at the same time will I giue vnto Gog a place there for burial in Israel, euen the valley whereby men go towarde the East part of the sea: and it shall cause them that passe by, to stoppe their noses, and there shall they bury Gog with all his multitude: and they shall call it the valley of Hamon-Gog.
Ezekiel 39:12	And seuen moneths long shall the house of Israel be burying of the, that they may clense the land.
Ezekiel 39:13	Yea, all the people of the lande shall burie them, and they shall haue a name when I shall be glorified, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 39:14	And they shall chuse out men to goe continually through the lande with them that trauaile, to bury those that remaine vpon ye ground, and clense it: they shall search to the ende of seuen moneths.
Ezekiel 39:15	And the trauailers that passe through the land, if any see a mans bone, then shall he set vp a signe by it, till the buriers haue buried it, in the valley of Hamon-Gog.
Ezekiel 39:16	And also the name of the citie shalbe Hamonah: thus shall they clense the land.
Ezekiel 39:17	And thou sonne of man, thus sayeth the Lord God, Speake vnto euery feathered foule, and to all the beastes of the fielde, Assemble your selues, and come gather your selues on euery side to my sacrifice: for I do sacrifice a great sacrifice for you vpon the mountaines of Israel, that ye may eate flesh, and drinke blood.
Ezekiel 39:18	Ye shall eate the flesh of the valiant, and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of the weathers, of the lambes, and of the goates, and of bullockes, euen of all fat beastes of Bashan.
Ezekiel 39:19	And ye shall eate fat till you be full, and drinke blood, till ye be drunken of my sacrifice, which I haue sacrificed for you.
Ezekiel 39:20	Thus you shalbe filled at my table with horses and chariots, with valiant men, and with al men of warre, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 39:21	And I wil set my glory among the heathe, and all the heathen shall see my iudgement, that I haue executed, and mine hand, which I haue layed vpon them.
Ezekiel 39:22	So the house of Israel shall knowe, that I am the Lord their God from that day and so forth.
Ezekiel 39:23	And the heathen shall knowe, that ye house of Israel went into captiuitie for their iniquitie, because they trespassed against me: therefore hid I my face from them, and gaue them into ye hand of their enemies: so fell they all by the sword.
Ezekiel 39:24	According to their vncleannes, and according to their transgressions haue I done vnto the, and hid my face from them.
Ezekiel 39:25	Therefore thus sayth the Lord God, Nowe will I bring againe the captiuitie of Iaakob, and haue compassion vpon the whole house of Israel, and wil be ielous for mine holy Name,
Ezekiel 39:26	After that they haue borne their shame, and all their transgression, whereby they haue transgressed against me, whe they dwelt safely in their land, and without feare of any.
Ezekiel 39:27	When I haue brought them againe from the people, and gathered them out of their enemies landes, and am sanctified in them in the sight of many nations,
Ezekiel 39:28	Then shall they know, that I am the Lord their God, which caused them to be led into captiuitie among the heathen: but I haue gathered them vnto their owne land, and haue left none of them any more there,
Ezekiel 39:29	Neither wil I hide my face any more from them: for I haue powred out my Spirit vpon the house of Israel, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 40:1	In the fiue and twentieth yeere of our being in captiuitie, in the beginning of the yeere, in the tenth day of the moneth, in the fourteenth yeere after that the citie was smitten, in the selfe same day, the hande of the Lord was vpon mee, and brought me thither.
Ezekiel 40:2	Into the lande of Israel brought he me by a diuine vision, and set me vpon a very hie mountaine, whereupon was as the building of a citie, toward the South.
Ezekiel 40:3	And he brought me thither, and beholde, there was a man, whose similitude was to looke to, like brasse, with a linnen thread in his hand, and a reede to measure with: and he stoode at the gate.
Ezekiel 40:4	And the man said vnto me, Sonne of man, beholde with thine eyes, and heare with thine eares, and set thine heart vpon all that I shall shew thee: for to the intent, that they might be shewed thee, art thou brought hither: declare al that thou seest, vnto the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 40:5	And beholde, I sawe a wall on the outside of the house round about: and in the mans hand was a reede to measure with, of sixe cubites long, by the cubite, and an hand breadth: so he measured the breadth of the buylding with one reede, and the height with one reede.
Ezekiel 40:6	Then came he vnto the gate, which looketh towarde the East, and went vp the stayres thereof, and measured the poste of the gate, which was one reede broade, and the other poste of the gate, which was one reede broade.
Ezekiel 40:7	And euery chamber was one reede long, and one reede broad, and betweene the chambers were fiue cubites: and the post of the gate by the porch of the gate within was one reede.
Ezekiel 40:8	He measured also the porche of the gate within with one reede.
Ezekiel 40:9	Then measured he the porch of the gate of eight cubites, and the postes thereof, of two cubites, and the porch of the gate was inward.
Ezekiel 40:10	And the chambers of the gate Eastwarde, were three on this side, and three on that side: they three were of one measure, and the postes had one measure on this side, and one on that side.
Ezekiel 40:11	And he measured the breadth of the entrie of the gate ten cubites, and the height of the gate thirteene cubites.
Ezekiel 40:12	The space also before the chambers was one cubite on this side, and the space was one cubite on that side, and the chambers were sixe cubites on this side and sixe cubites on that side.
Ezekiel 40:13	He measured then the gate from the roufe of a chamber to the toppe of the gate: the breadth was fiue and twentie cubites, doore against doore.
Ezekiel 40:14	He made also postes of threescore cubites, and the postes of the court, and of the gate had one measure round about.
Ezekiel 40:15	And vpon the forefront of the entry of the gate vnto the forefront of the porch of the gate within were fiftie cubites.
Ezekiel 40:16	And there were narrowe windowes in the chambers, and in their postes within the gate round about, and likewise to the arches: and the windowes went rounde about within: and vpon the postes were palme trees.
Ezekiel 40:17	Then brought he me into the outwarde court, and lo, there were chambers, and a pauement made for the court round about, and thirtie chambers were vpon the pauement.
Ezekiel 40:18	And the pauement was by the side of the gates ouer against the length of the gates, and the pauement was beneath.
Ezekiel 40:19	Then hee measured the breadth from the forefront of the lower gate without, vnto the forefront of the court within, an hundreth cubits Eastward and Northward.
Ezekiel 40:20	And the gate of the outwarde court, that looked toward the North, measured he after the length and breadth thereof.
Ezekiel 40:21	And the chambers thereof were, three on this side, and three on that side, and the postes thereof and the arches thereof were after the measure of the first gate: the length thereof was fiftie cubites, and the breadth fiue and twentie cubites.
Ezekiel 40:22	And their windowes, and their arches with their palme trees, were after the measure of the gate that looketh toward the East, and the going vp vnto it had seuen steppes, and the arches therof were before them.
Ezekiel 40:23	And the gate of the inner court stoode ouer against the gate towarde the North, and towarde the East, and hee measured from gate to gate an hundreth cubites.
Ezekiel 40:24	After that, he brought mee towarde the South, and loe, there was a gate towarde the South, and hee measured the postes thereof, and the arches thereof according to these measures.
Ezekiel 40:25	And there were windowes in it, and in the arches thereof round about, like those windowes: the height was fiftie cubites, and the breadth fiue and twentie cubites.
Ezekiel 40:26	And there were seuen steps to go vp to it, and the arches thereof were before them: and it had palme trees, one on this side, and another on that side vpon the post thereof.
Ezekiel 40:27	And there was a gate in the inner court towarde the South, and he measured from gate to gate towarde the South an hundreth cubites.
Ezekiel 40:28	And he brought me into the inner court by the South gate, and he measured the South gate according to these measures,
Ezekiel 40:29	And the chambers thereof, and the postes thereof, and the arches thereof according to these measures, and there were windowes in it, and in the arches thereof rounde about, it was fiftie cubites long and fiue and twentie cubites broade.
Ezekiel 40:30	And the arches round about were fiue and twenty cubites long, and fiue cubites broad.
Ezekiel 40:31	And the arches thereof were towarde the vtter court, and palme trees were vpon the postes thereof, and the going vp to it had eight steppes.
Ezekiel 40:32	Againe he brought me into ye inner court toward the East, and he measured the gate according to these measures.
Ezekiel 40:33	And the chambers thereof, and the postes thereof, and the arches thereof were according to these measures, and there were windowes therein, and in the arches thereof round about, it was fiftie cubites long, and fiue and twentie cubites broade.
Ezekiel 40:34	And the arches thereof were towarde the vtter court, and palme trees were vpon the postes thereof, on this side and on that side, and the going vp to it had eight steppes.
Ezekiel 40:35	After he brought mee to the North gate, and measured it, according to these measures,
Ezekiel 40:36	The chambers thereof, the postes thereof, and the arches thereof, and there were windowes therein round about: the height was fiftie cubits, and the breadth fiue and twentie cubites.
Ezekiel 40:37	And the postes thereof were towarde the vtter court, and palme trees were vpon the postes thereof on this side, and on that side, and the going vp to it had eight steps.
Ezekiel 40:38	And euery chamber, and the entrie thereof was vnder the postes of the gates: there they washed the burnt offring.
Ezekiel 40:39	And in the porch of the gate stoode two tables on this side, and two tables on that side, vpon the which they slew the burnt offring, and the sinne offring, and the trespas offring.
Ezekiel 40:40	And at the side beyond the steppes, at the entry of the North gate stoode two tables, and on the other side, which was at the porch of the gate were two tables.
Ezekiel 40:41	Foure tables were on this side, and foure tables on that side by the side of the gate, euen eight tables whereupon they slew their sacrifice.
Ezekiel 40:42	And the foure tables were of hewen stone for the burnt offering, of a cubite and an halfe long, and a cubite and an halfe broade, and one cubite hie: whereupon also they layde the instruments wherewith they slew the burnt offring and the sacrifice.
Ezekiel 40:43	And within were borders an hand broade, fastened round about, and vpon the tables lay the flesh of the offring.
Ezekiel 40:44	And without the inner gate were ye chambers of the singers in the inner Court, which was at the side of the North gate: and their prospect was towarde the South, and one was at the side of the East gate, hauing the prospect towarde the North.
Ezekiel 40:45	And he said vnto me, This chamber whose prospect is towarde the South, is for the Priestes that haue the charge to keepe the house.
Ezekiel 40:46	And the chamber whose prospect is toward the North, is for the Priestes that haue the charge to keepe the altar: these are the sonnes of Zadok among ye sonnes of Leui which may come neere to the Lord to minister vnto him.
Ezekiel 40:47	So he measured the court, an hundreth cubites long, and an hundreth cubits broad, eue foure square: likewise the altar that was before ye house.
Ezekiel 40:48	And hee brought mee to the porch of the house, and measured the postes of the porch, fiue cubites on this side, and fiue cubites on that side: and the breadth of the gate was three cubites on this side, and three cubites on that side.
Ezekiel 40:49	The length of the porch was twentie cubites, and ye breadth eleuen cubites, and he brought me by the steps whereby they went vp to it, and there were pillars by the postes, one on this side, and another on that side.
Ezekiel 41:1	Afterward, hee brought mee to the Temple, and measured the postes, sixe cubites broade on the one side, and sixe cubites broad on the other side, which was the breadth of the Tabernacle.
Ezekiel 41:2	And the breadth of the entrie was tenne cubites, and the sides of the entrie were fiue cubites on the one side, and fiue cubites on the other side, and hee measured the length thereof fourtie cubites, and the breadth twentie cubites.
Ezekiel 41:3	Then went hee in, and measured the postes of the entrie two cubites, and the entrie sixe cubites, and the breadth of the entrie seuen cubites.
Ezekiel 41:4	So he measured the length thereof twentie cubites, and the breadth twentie cubites before the Temple. And he sayde vnto mee, This is the most holy place.
Ezekiel 41:5	After, he measured the wall of the house, sixe cubites, and the breadth of euery chamber foure cubites rounde about the house, on euery side.
Ezekiel 41:6	And the chambers were chamber vpon chaber, three and thirtie foote high, and they entred into the wall made for the chambers which was round about the house, that the postes might bee fastened therein, and not be fastened in the wall of the house.
Ezekiel 41:7	And it was large and went rounde mounting vpwarde to the chambers: for the staire of the house was mounting vpwarde, rounde about the house: therefore the house was larger vpward: so they went vp from the lowest chamber to the highest by the middes.
Ezekiel 41:8	I sawe also the house hie rounde about: the foundations of the chambers were a full reede of fixe great cubites.
Ezekiel 41:9	The thickenesse of the wall which was for the chamber without, was fiue cubites, and that which remained, was the place of the chambers that were within.
Ezekiel 41:10	And betweene the chambers was the widenes of twentie cubites round about the House on euery side.
Ezekiel 41:11	And the doores of the chambers were toward the place that remained, one doore toward the North, and another doore toward the South, and the breadth of the place that remained, was fiue cubites round about.
Ezekiel 41:12	Nowe the building that was before the separate place toward the West corner, was seuentie cubites broad, and the wall of the building was fiue cubites thick, round about, and ye length ninetie cubites.
Ezekiel 41:13	So he measured the house an hundreth cubites long, and the separate place and the building with the walles thereof were an hundreth cubites long.
Ezekiel 41:14	Also the breadth of the forefront of the house and of the separate place towarde the East, was an hundreth cubites.
Ezekiel 41:15	And hee measured the length of the building, ouer against the separate place, which was behinde it, and the chambers on the one side and on the other side an hundreth cubites with the Temple within, and the arches of the court.
Ezekiel 41:16	The postes and the narowe windowes, and the chambers round about, on three sides ouer against the postes, sieled with cedar wood rounde about, and from the ground vp to the windowes, and the windowes were sieled.
Ezekiel 41:17	And from aboue the doore vnto the inner house and without, and by all the wall rounde about within and without it was sieled according to the measure.
Ezekiel 41:18	And it was made with Cherubims and palme trees, so that a palme tree was betweene a Cherub and a Cherub: and euery Cherub had two faces.
Ezekiel 41:19	So that the face of a man was towarde the palme tree on the one side, and the face of a lyon toward the palme tree on the other side: thus was it made through all the house round about.
Ezekiel 41:20	From the grounde vnto aboue the doore were Cherubims and palme trees made as in the wall of the Temple.
Ezekiel 41:21	The postes of the Temple were squared, and thus to looke vnto was the similitude and forme of the Sanctuarie.
Ezekiel 41:22	The altar of wood was three cubites hie, and the length thereof two cubites, and the corners thereof and the length thereof and the sides thereof were of wood. And he sayd vnto me, This is the table that shalbe before the Lord.
Ezekiel 41:23	And the Temple and the Sanctuarie had two doores.
Ezekiel 41:24	And the doores had two wickets, euen two turning wickets, two wickets for one doore, and two wickets for another doore.
Ezekiel 41:25	And vpon the doores of the Temple there were made Cherubims and palmetrees, like as was made vpon the walles, and there were thicke plankes vpon the forefront of the porch without.
Ezekiel 41:26	And there were narow windowes and palme trees on the one side, and on the other side, by the sides of the porch, and vpon ye sides of the house, and thicke plankes.
Ezekiel 42:1	Then brought hee me into the vtter court by the way towarde the North, and he brought me into the chamber that was ouer against the separate place, and which was before the building toward the North.
Ezekiel 42:2	Before ye length of an hundreth cubites, was the North doore, and it was fiftie cubites broad.
Ezekiel 42:3	Ouer against the twentie cubites which were for the inner court, and ouer against the pauement, which was for the vtter court, was chamber against chamber in three rowes.
Ezekiel 42:4	And before the chambers was a gallery of ten cubites wide, and within was a way of one cubite, and their doores towarde the North.
Ezekiel 42:5	Nowe the chambers aboue were narower: for those chambers seemed to eate vp these, to wit, the lower, and those that were in the middes of the building.
Ezekiel 42:6	For they were in three rowes, but had not pillars as the pillars of the court: therefore there was a difference from them beneath and from the middlemost, euen from the ground.
Ezekiel 42:7	And the wall that was without ouer against the chambers, toward the vtter court on the forefront of the chambers, was fiftie cubites long.
Ezekiel 42:8	For the length of the chambers that were in the vtter court, was fiftie cubites: and loe, before the Temple were an hundreth cubites.
Ezekiel 42:9	And vnder these chambers was the entrie, on the East side, as one goeth into them from the outward court.
Ezekiel 42:10	The chambers were in the thicknesse of the wall of the court towarde the East, ouer against the separate place, and ouer against the building.
Ezekiel 42:11	And the way before them was after ye maner of the chambers, which were toward ye North, as long as they, and as broad as they: and all their entries were like, both according to their facions, and according to their doores.
Ezekiel 42:12	And according to ye doores of ye chambers that were towarde the South, was a doore in the corner of the way, euen the way directly before the wall toward the East, as one entreth.
Ezekiel 42:13	The said he vnto me, The North chambers and ye South chambers which are before ye separate place, they be holy chambers, wherein the Priests that approch vnto ye Lord, shall eat the most holy things: there shall they lay the most holy things, and the meate offering, and the sinne offering, and the trespasse offring: for the place is holy.
Ezekiel 42:14	When the Priestes enter therein, they shall not go out of the holy place into the vtter court, but there they shall lay their garmentes wherein they minister: for they are holy, and shall put on other garmentes, and so shall approch to those things, which are for the people.
Ezekiel 42:15	Nowe when he had made an ende of measuring the inner house, he brought mee forth toward the gate whose prospect is towarde the East, and measured it round about.
Ezekiel 42:16	He measured the East side with the measuring rod, fiue hundreth reedes, euen with the measuring reede round about.
Ezekiel 42:17	He measured also the Northside, fiue hundreth reedes, euen with the measuring reede rounde about.
Ezekiel 42:18	And he measured the South side fiue hundreth reedes with the measuring reede.
Ezekiel 42:19	He turned about also to the West side, and measured fiue hundreth reedes with the measuring reede.
Ezekiel 42:20	He measured it by the foure sides: it had a wall round about, fiue hundreth reedes long, and fiue hundreth broade to make a separation betweene the Sanctuarie, and the prophane place.
Ezekiel 43:1	Afterward he brought me to the gate, euen the gate that turneth towarde the East.
Ezekiel 43:2	And beholde, the glorie of the God of Israel came from out of the East, whose voyce was like a noyse of great waters, and the earth was made light with his glorie.
Ezekiel 43:3	And the vision which I saw was like the vision, euen as the vision that I sawe when I came to destroy the citie: and the visions were like the vision that I sawe by the riuer Chebar: and I fell vpon my face.
Ezekiel 43:4	And the glorie of the Lord came into the house by the way of the gate, whose prospect is towarde the East.
Ezekiel 43:5	So the Spirite tooke me vp and brought me into the inner court, and beholde, the glorie of the Lord filled the house.
Ezekiel 43:6	And I heard one speaking vnto me out of the house: and there stoode a man by me,
Ezekiel 43:7	Which saide vnto me, Sonne of man, this place is my throne, and the place of the soles of my feete, whereas I will dwell among the children of Israel for euer, and the house of Israel shall no more defile mine holy Name, neither they, nor their Kings by their fornication, nor by the carkeises of their Kings in their high places.
Ezekiel 43:8	Albeit they set their thresholdes by my thresholdes, and their postes by my postes (for there was but a wall betweene me and them) yet haue they defiled mine holy Name with their abominations, that they haue committed: wherfore I haue consumed them in my wrath.
Ezekiel 43:9	Now therefore let them put away their fornication, and the carkeises of their Kings farre from me, and I will dwell among them for euer.
Ezekiel 43:10	Thou sonne of man, shew this House to the house of Israel, that they may be ashamed of their wickednes, and let them measure ye paterne.
Ezekiel 43:11	And if they be ashamed of all that they haue done, shew them the forme of the House, and ye paterne thereof, and the going out thereof, and the coming in thereof, and the whole fashion thereof, and all the ordinances thereof, and all the figures thereof, and all the lawes thereof: and write it in their sight, that they may keepe the whole fashion thereof, and all the ordinances thereof, and do them.
Ezekiel 43:12	This is the description of the house, It shalbe vpon the toppe of the mount: all the limites thereof round about shalbe most holy. Beholde, this is the description of the house.
Ezekiel 43:13	And these are the measures of the Altar, after the cubites, the cubite is a cubite, and an had breadth, euen the bottome shalbe a cubite, and the breadth a cubite, and the border thereof by the edge thereof rounde about shalbe a spanne: and this shalbe the height of the altar.
Ezekiel 43:14	And from the bottome which toucheth the ground to the lower piece shalbe two cubites: and the breadth one cubite, and from the litle piece to the great piece shalbe foure cubites, and the breadth one cubite.
Ezekiel 43:15	So the altar shalbe foure cubites, and from the altar vpward shalbe foure hornes.
Ezekiel 43:16	And the altar shalbe twelue cubites long, and twelue broade, and fouresquare in the foure corners thereof.
Ezekiel 43:17	And ye frame shalbe foureteene cubites log, and fourteene broade in the fouresquare corners thereof, and the border about it shalbe halfe a cubite, and the bottome therof shalbe a cubite about, and the steps thereof shalbe turned towarde ye East.
Ezekiel 43:18	And he said vnto me, Sone of man, thus saith ye Lord God, These are ye ordinances of ye altar in the day when they shall make it to offer the burnt offring thereon, and to sprinkle blood thereon.
Ezekiel 43:19	And thou shalt giue to the Priestes, and to the Leuites, that be of the seede of Zadok, which approch vnto me, to minister vnto me, saith the Lord God, a yong bullocke for a sinne offring.
Ezekiel 43:20	And thou shalt take of the blood thereof, and put it on the foure hornes of it, and on the foure corners of the frame, and vpon the border round about: thus shalt thou clense it, and reconcile it.
Ezekiel 43:21	Thou shalt take the bullocke also of the sinne offring, and burne it in the appointed place of the house without the Sanctuarie.
Ezekiel 43:22	But the second day thou shalt offer an hee goat without blemish for a sinne offring, and they shall clense ye altar, as they did clense it with the bullocke.
Ezekiel 43:23	When thou hast made an ende of clensing it, thou shalt offer a yong bullocke without blemish, and a ram out of the flocke without blemish.
Ezekiel 43:24	And thou shalt offer them before ye Lord, and the Priestes shall cast salt vpon them, and they shall offer them for a burnt offring vnto ye Lord.
Ezekiel 43:25	Seuen dayes shalt thou prepare euery day an hee goate for a sinne offring: they shall also prepare a yong bullocke and a ramme out of the flocke, without blemish.
Ezekiel 43:26	Thus shall they seuen dayes purifie the altar, and clense it, and consecrate it.
Ezekiel 43:27	And when these dayes are expired, vpon the eight day and so forth, the Priests shall make your burnt offrings vpon the altar, and your peace offrings, and I will accept you, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 44:1	Then he brought me towarde the gate of the outwarde Sanctuarie, which turneth towarde the East, and it was shut.
Ezekiel 44:2	Then saide the Lord vnto me, This gate shalbe shut, and shall not bee opened, and no man shall enter by it, because the Lord God of Israel hath entred by it, and it shalbe shut.
Ezekiel 44:3	It appertaineth to the Prince: the Prince himselfe shall sit in it to eate bread before the Lord: he shall enter by the way of the porche of that gate, and shall go out by the way of the same.
Ezekiel 44:4	Then brought he mee toward the North gate before the House: and when I looked, beholde, the glorie of the Lord filled the house of the Lord, and I fell vpon my face.
Ezekiel 44:5	And the Lord sayd vnto me, Sonne of man, marke well, and behold with thine eyes, and heare with thine eares, all that I say vnto thee, concerning al the ordinances of the house of the Lord, and al the lawes thereof, and marke well the entring in of the house with euery going forth of the Sanctuarie,
Ezekiel 44:6	And thou shalt say to the rebellious, euen to ye house of Israel, Thus saith ye Lord God, O house of Israel, ye haue ynough of al your abominations,
Ezekiel 44:7	Seeing that yee haue brought into my Sanctuarie strangers, vncircumcised in heart, and vncircumcised in flesh, to bee in my Sanctuarie, to pollute mine house, when yee offer my bread, euen fat, and blood: and they haue broken my couenant, because of all your abominations.
Ezekiel 44:8	For yee haue not kept the ordinances of mine holy things: but you your selues haue set other to take the charge of my Sanctuarie.
Ezekiel 44:9	Thus saieth the Lord God, No stranger vncircumcised in heart, nor vncircumcised in flesh, shall enter into my Sanctuarie, of any stranger that is among the children of Israel,
Ezekiel 44:10	Neither yet ye Leuites that are gone backe from me, when Israel went astray, which went astray from thee after their idoles, but they shall beare their iniquitie.
Ezekiel 44:11	And they shall serue in my Sanctuarie, and keepe the gates of the House, and minister in the House: they shall slay the burnt offring and the sacrifice for the people: and they shall stand before them to serue them.
Ezekiel 44:12	Because they serued before their idoles, and caused the house of Israel to fall into iniquitie, therfore haue I lift vp mine had against the, saith the Lord God, and they shall beare their iniquity,
Ezekiel 44:13	And they shall not come neere vnto me to do ye office of ye Priest vnto me, neyther shall they come neere vnto any of mine holy things in the most holy place, but they shall beare their shame and their abominations, which they haue comitted.
Ezekiel 44:14	And I will make them keepers of ye watch of the House, for all the seruice thereof, and for all that shalbe done therein.
Ezekiel 44:15	But the Priests of the Leuites, the sonnes of Zadok, that kept the charge of my Sanctuarie, when the children of Israel went astray from me, they shall come neere to me to serue me, and they shall stande before me to offer me the fat and the blood, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 44:16	They shall enter into my Sanctuarie, and shall come neere to my table, to serue me, and they shall keepe my charge.
Ezekiel 44:17	And whe they shall enter in at the gates of the inner court, they shall be clothed with linen garments, and no wool shall come vpon the while they serue in ye gates of the inner court, and within.
Ezekiel 44:18	They shall haue linnen bonets vpon their heades, and shall haue linnen breeches vpon their loynes: they shall not girde them selues in the sweating places.
Ezekiel 44:19	But when they goe foorth into the vtter court, euen to the vtter court to the people, they shall put off their garments, wherein they ministred, and lay them in the holy chambers, and they shall put on other garments: for they shall not sanctifie the people with their garments.
Ezekiel 44:20	They shall not also shaue their heades, nor suffer their lockes to growe long, but rounde their heades.
Ezekiel 44:21	Neither shall any Priest drinke wine when they enter into the inner court.
Ezekiel 44:22	Neither shall they take for their wiues a widowe, or her that is diuorced: but they shall take maidens of the seede of the house of Israel, or a widow that hath bene the widow of a Priest.
Ezekiel 44:23	And they shall teach my people the difference betweene the holy and prophane, and cause them to discerne betweene the vncleane and the cleane.
Ezekiel 44:24	And in controuersie they shall stande to iudge, and they shall iudge it according to my iudgements: and they shall keepe my lawes and my statutes in all mine assemblies, and they shall sanctifie my Sabbaths.
Ezekiel 44:25	And they shall come at no dead person to defile theselues, except at their father, or mother, or sone, or daughter, brother or sister, that hath had yet none husband: in these may they be defiled.
Ezekiel 44:26	And when he is clensed, they shall reckon vnto him seuen dayes.
Ezekiel 44:27	And when he goeth into ye Sanctuarie vnto the inner court to minister in the Sanctuarie, he shall offer his sinne offring, saith ye Lord God.
Ezekiel 44:28	And the Priesthood shall bee their inheritance, yea, I am their inheritance: therefore shall ye giue them no possessio in Israel, for I am their possession.
Ezekiel 44:29	They shall eate the meat offring, and the sinne offring, and the trespas offring, and euery dedicate thing in Israel shall be theirs.
Ezekiel 44:30	And all the first of all the first borne, and euery oblation, euen all of euery sort of your oblations shall be the Priestes. Ye shall also giue vnto the Priest the first of your dough, that he may cause the blessing to rest in thine house.
Ezekiel 44:31	The Priests shall not eate of any thing, that is dead, or torne, whether it be foule or beast.
Ezekiel 45:1	Moreover when yee shall deuide the land for inheritance, ye shall offer an oblation vnto the Lord an holy portion of the land, fiue and twentie thousand reedes long, and ten thousand broad: this shalbe holy in all the borders thereof round about.
Ezekiel 45:2	Of this there shalbe for the Sanctuarie fiue hundreth in length with fiue hundreth in breadth, all square round about, and fiftie cubites rounde about for the suburbes thereof.
Ezekiel 45:3	And of this measure shalt thou measure the length of fiue and twentie thousande, and the breadth of tenne thousande: and in it shalbe the Sanctuarie, and the most holy place.
Ezekiel 45:4	The holy portion of the lande shalbe the Priests, which minister in the Sanctuarie, which came neere to serue the Lord: and it shalbe a place for their houses, and an holy place for the Sanctuarie.
Ezekiel 45:5	And in the fiue and twentie thousande of length, and the ten thousand of breadth shall the Leuites that minister in the house, haue their possession for twentie chambers.
Ezekiel 45:6	Also ye shall appoynt the possession of the citie, fiue thousand broad, and fiue and twentie thousand log ouer against the oblation of ye holy portion: it shalbe for the whole house of Israel.
Ezekiel 45:7	And a portion shalbe for the prince on ye one side, and on that side of the oblation of the holy portion, and of the possession of the citie, euen before the oblation of the holy portion, and before the possession of the citie from the West corner Westward, and from the East corner Eastward, and the length shalbe by one of the portions from the West border vnto the East border.
Ezekiel 45:8	In this lande shalbe his possession in Israel: and my princes shall no more oppresse my people, and the rest of the land shall they giue to ye house of Israel, according to their tribes.
Ezekiel 45:9	Thus saith the Lord God, Let it suffice you, O princes of Israel: leaue off crueltie and oppression, and execute iudgment and iustice: take away your exactions from my people, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 45:10	Ye shall haue iust balances, and a true Ephah, and a true Bath.
Ezekiel 45:11	The Ephah and the Bath shalbe equall: a Bath shall conteyne the tenth part of an Homer, and an Ephah the tenth part of an Homer: the equalitie thereof shalbe after the Homer.
Ezekiel 45:12	And the shekel shalbe twentie gerahs, and twentie shekels, and fiue and twentie shekels and fifteene shekels shalbe your Maneh.
Ezekiel 45:13	This is the oblation that ye shall offer, ye sixt part of an Ephah of an Homer of wheat, and ye shall giue the sixt part of an Ephah of an Homer of barley.
Ezekiel 45:14	Concerning ye ordinance of the oyle, euen of the Bath of oyle, ye shall offer the tenth part of a Bath out of ye Cor (ten Baths are an Homer: for ten Baths fill an Homer)
Ezekiel 45:15	And one lambe of two hundreth sheepe out of ye fat pastures of Israel for a meat offring, and for a burnt offring and for peace offrings, to make reconciliation for them, sayth the Lord God.
Ezekiel 45:16	All the people of the lande shall giue this oblation for the prince in Israel.
Ezekiel 45:17	And it shalbe ye princes part to giue burnt offrings, and meat offrings, and drinke offrings in the solemne feasts and in the newe moones, and in the Sabbaths, and in all the hie feasts of the house of Israel: he shall prepare the sinne offring, and the meat offring, and the burnt offring, and the peace offrings to make reconciliation for the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 45:18	Thus sayth the Lord God, In the first moneth, in the first day of the moneth, thou shalt take a yong bullocke without blemish and clense the Sanctuarie.
Ezekiel 45:19	And the Priest shall take of the blood of the sinne offring, and put it vpon the posts of the house, and vpon the foure corners of the frame of the altar, and vpon the postes of the gate of the inner court.
Ezekiel 45:20	And so shalt thou doe the seuenth day of the moneth, for euery one that hath erred and for him that is deceiued: so shall you reconcile the house.
Ezekiel 45:21	In the first moneth in the foureteenth day of the moneth, ye shall haue the Passeouer, a feast of seuen dayes, and ye shall eate vnleauened bread.
Ezekiel 45:22	And vpon that day, shall the prince prepare for him selfe, and for all the people of the lande, a bullocke for a sinne offring.
Ezekiel 45:23	And in the seuen dayes of the feast he shall make a burnt offring to the Lord, euen of seuen bullockes, and seuen rammes without blemish dayly for seuen dayes, and an hee goate dayly for a sinne offring.
Ezekiel 45:24	And he shall prepare a meate offring of an Ephah for a bullocke, an Ephah for a ramme, and an Hin of oyle for an Ephah.
Ezekiel 45:25	In the seuenth moneth, in the fifteenth day of the moneth, shall he do the like in the feast for seuen dayes, according to the sinne offring, according to the burnt offring, and according to the meate offring, and according to the oyle.
Ezekiel 46:1	Thus sayth the Lord God, The gate of the inner court, that turneth toward the East, shall be shut the sixe working dayes: but on the Sabbath it shalbe opened, and in the day of the newe moone it shalbe opened.
Ezekiel 46:2	And the prince shall enter by the way of the porch of that gate without, and shall stande by the post of the gate, and the Priests shall make his burnt offring, and his peace offrings, and he shall worship at the threshold of the gate: after, he shall go foorth, but the gate shall not be shut till the euening.
Ezekiel 46:3	Likewise the people of the lande shall worshippe at the entrie of this gate before the Lord on the Sabbaths, and in the newe moones.
Ezekiel 46:4	And the burnt offring that the prince shall offer vnto the Lord on the Sabbath day, shalbe sixe lambs without blemish, and a ram without blemish.
Ezekiel 46:5	And the meat offring shalbe an Ephah for a ram: and the meate offring for the lambs a gift of his hand, and an Hin of oyle to an Ephah.
Ezekiel 46:6	And in the day of the newe moone it shall be a yong bullocke without blemish, and sixe lambes and a ram: they shalbe without blemish.
Ezekiel 46:7	And he shall prepare a meat offring, euen an Ephah for a bullocke, and an Ephah for a ram, and for the lambes according as his hand shall bring, and an Hin of oyle to an Ephah.
Ezekiel 46:8	And when the prince shall enter, hee shall goe in by the way of the porche of that gate, and hee shall go foorth by the way thereof.
Ezekiel 46:9	But when the people of the land shall come before the Lord in the solemne feastes, hee that entreth in by the way of the North gate to worship, shall goe out by the way of the South gate: and he that entreth by the way of the South gate, shall goe foorth by the way of the North gate: hee shall not returne by the way of the gate whereby hee came in, but they shall goe forth ouer against it.
Ezekiel 46:10	And the prince shall be in the middes of them: hee shall go in when they goe in, and when they goe forth, they shall goe forth together.
Ezekiel 46:11	And in the feastes, and in the solemnities the meat offring shalbe an Ephah to a bullocke, and an Ephah to a ram, and to the lambes, the gift of his hand, and an Hin of oyle to an Ephah.
Ezekiel 46:12	Nowe when the prince shall make a free burnt offring or peace offrings freely vnto the Lord, one shall then open him the gate, that turneth towarde the East, and hee shall make his burnt offring and his peace offrings, as he did on the Sabbath day: after, hee shall goe foorth, and when he is gone forth, one shall shut the gate.
Ezekiel 46:13	Thou shalt dayly make a burnt offring vnto the Lord of a lambe of one yere without blemish: thou shalt doe it euery morning.
Ezekiel 46:14	And thou shalt prepare a meate offring for it euery morning, the sixt part of an Ephah, and the thirde part of an Hin of oyle, to mingle with the fine flowre: this meate offring shalbe continually by a perpetuall ordinance vnto the Lord.
Ezekiel 46:15	Thus shall they prepare the lambe, and the meate offring and the oyle euery morning, for a continual burnt offring.
Ezekiel 46:16	Thus saith the Lord God, If the prince giue a gift of his inheritance vnto any of his sonnes, it shalbe his sonnes, and it shall bee their possession by inheritance.
Ezekiel 46:17	But if hee giue a gift of his inheritance to one of his seruantes, then it shall bee his to the yere of libertie: after, it shall returne to ye prince, but his inheritance shall remaine to his sonnes for them.
Ezekiel 46:18	Moreouer the prince shall not take of the peoples inheritance, nor thrust them out of their possession: but he shall cause his sonnes to inherit of his owne possession, that my people be not scattered euery man from his possession.
Ezekiel 46:19	After, he brought me through the entrie, which was at the side of the gate, into the holy chambers of the Priestes, which stoode towarde the North: and beholde, there was a place at the West side of them.
Ezekiel 46:20	Then saide he vnto me, This is the place where the Priestes shall see the the trespasse offering and the sinne offering, where they shall bake the meat offring, that they should not beare them into the vtter court, to sanctifie ye people.
Ezekiel 46:21	Then he brought me foorth into the vtter court, and caused me to goe by the foure corners of the court: and beholde, in euery corner of the court, there was a court.
Ezekiel 46:22	In the foure corners of the court there were courts ioyned of fourty cubits long, and thirty broad: these foure corners were of one measure.
Ezekiel 46:23	And there went a wall about them, euen about those foure, and kitchins were made vnder the walles rounde about.
Ezekiel 46:24	Then said he vnto me, This is the kitchin where the ministers of the house shall seethe the sacrifice of the people.
Ezekiel 47:1	Afterward he brought me vnto the doore of the house: and behold, waters yssued out from vnder the threshold of the house Eastward: for the forefront of the house stoode towarde the East, and the waters ran downe from vnder the right side of the house, at the southside of ye altar.
Ezekiel 47:2	Then brought he me out toward the North gate, and led me about by the way without vnto the vtter gate, by the way that turneth Eastward: and behold, there came forth waters on ye right side
Ezekiel 47:3	And when the man that had the line in his hand, went foorth Eastward, he measured a thousand cubites, and he brought me through the waters: the waters were to the ancles.
Ezekiel 47:4	Againe he measured a thousande, and brought me through the waters: the waters were to the knees: againe he measured a thousand, and brought me through: ye waters were to ye loynes.
Ezekiel 47:5	Afterward he measured a thousand, and it was a riuer, that I could not passe ouer: for the waters were risen, and the waters did flowe, as a riuer that could not be passed ouer.
Ezekiel 47:6	And he said vnto me, Sonne of man, hast thou seene this? Then he brought me, and caused me to returne to the brinke of the riuer.
Ezekiel 47:7	Nowe when I returned, beholde, at the brinke of the riuer were very many trees on the one side, and on the other.
Ezekiel 47:8	Then saide he vnto me, These waters issue out towarde the East countrey, and runne downe into the plaine, and shall goe into one sea: they shall runne into another sea, and the waters shalbe wholesome.
Ezekiel 47:9	And euery thing that liueth, which moueth, wheresoeuer the riuers shall come, shall liue, and there shalbe a very great multitude of fish, because these waters shall come thither: for they shall be wholesome, and euery thing shall liue whither the riuer commeth.
Ezekiel 47:10	And then the fishers shall stand vpon it, and from En-gedi euen vnto En-eglaim, they shall spread out their nettes: for their fish shalbe according to their kindes, as the fishe of the maine sea, exceeding many.
Ezekiel 47:11	But the myrie places thereof, and the marises thereof shall not be wholesome: they shalbe made salt pittes.
Ezekiel 47:12	And by this riuer vpon the brinke thereof, on this side, and on that side shall grow all fruitful trees, whose leafe shall not fade, neither shall ye fruit thereof faile: it shall bring forth new fruit according to his moneths, because their waters run out of ye Sanctuarie: and the fruite thereof shalbe meat, and the leafe thereof shalbe for medicine.
Ezekiel 47:13	Thus saith the Lord God, This shall be the border, whereby ye shall inherite the lande according to the twelue tribes of Israel: Ioseph shall haue two portions.
Ezekiel 47:14	And ye shall inherite it, one as well as another: concerning the which I lift vp mine hand to giue it vnto your fathers, and this lande shall fall vnto you for inheritance.
Ezekiel 47:15	And this shall be the border of the lande towarde the North side, from the maine sea toworde Hethlon as men goe to Zedadah:
Ezekiel 47:16	Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is betweene the border of Damascus, and the border of Hamath, and Hazar, Hatticon, which is by the coast of Hauran.
Ezekiel 47:17	And the border from the sea shalbe Hazar, Enan, and the border of Damascus, and the residue of the North, Northwarde, and the border of Hamath: so shalbe the North part.
Ezekiel 47:18	But the East side shall ye measure from Hauran, and from Damascus, and from Gilead, and from the lande of Israel by Iorden, and from the border vnto the East sea: and so shalbe the East part.
Ezekiel 47:19	And the Southside shalbe towarde Teman from Tamar to the waters of Meriboth in Kadesh, and the riuer to the maine sea: so shalbe the South part towarde Teman.
Ezekiel 47:20	The West parte also shalbe the great sea from the border, till a man come ouer against Hamath: this shalbe the West part.
Ezekiel 47:21	So shall ye deuide this lande vnto you, according to the tribes of Israel.
Ezekiel 47:22	And you shall deuide it by lot for an inheritance vnto you, and to the strangers that dwell among you, which shall beget children among you, and they shall be vnto you, as borne in the countrey among the children of Israel, they shall part inheritance with you in the middes of the tribes of Israel.
Ezekiel 47:23	And in what tribe the stranger dwelleth, there shall ye giue him his inheritance, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 48:1	Now these are the names of the tribes. From the North side, to the coast towarde Hethlon, as one goeth to Hamath, Hazar, Enan, and the border of Damascus Northwarde the coast of Hamath, euen from the East side to the West shall be a portion for Dan.
Ezekiel 48:2	And by the border of Dan from the East side vnto the West side, a portion for Asher.
Ezekiel 48:3	And by the border of Asher from the East parte euen vnto the West parte a portion for Naphtali.
Ezekiel 48:4	And by the border of Naphtali from the East quarter vnto the West side, a portion for Manasseh.
Ezekiel 48:5	And by the border of Manasseh from the East side vnto the West side a portion for Ephraim.
Ezekiel 48:6	And by the border of Ephraim, from the East part euen vnto the West part, a portion for Reuben.
Ezekiel 48:7	And by the border of Reuben, from the East quarter vnto the West quarter, a portion for Iudah.
Ezekiel 48:8	And by the border of Iudah from the East part vnto the West part shall be the offering which they shall offer of fiue and twentie thousande reedes broade, and of length as one of the other parts, from the East side vnto the Westside, and the Sanctuarie shalbe in the middes of it.
Ezekiel 48:9	The oblation that ye shall offer vnto the Lord, shalbe of fiue and twentie thousande long, and of ten thousand the breadth.
Ezekiel 48:10	And for them, euen for the Priestes shalbe this holy oblation, towarde the North fiue and twentie thousande long, and towarde the West, ten thousande broade, and towarde the East ten thousand broad, and towarde the South fiue and twentie thousand long, and the Sanctuarie of the Lord shalbe in the middes thereof.
Ezekiel 48:11	It shalbe for the Priestes that are sanctified of the sonnes of Zadok, which haue kept my charge, which went not astray when the children of Israel went astray, as the Leuites went astray.
Ezekiel 48:12	Therefore this oblation of the land that is offred, shalbe theirs, as a thing most holy by the border of the Leuites.
Ezekiel 48:13	And ouer against the border of the Priests the Leuites shall haue fiue and twentie thousande long, and ten thousande broade: all the length shalbe fiue and twentie thousand, and the breadth ten thousande.
Ezekiel 48:14	And they shall not sel of it, neither change it, nor abalienate the first fruites of the land: for it is holy vnto the Lord.
Ezekiel 48:15	And the fiue thousand that are left in the breadth ouer against the fiue and twentie thousande, shall be a prophane place for the citie, for housing, and for suburbes, and the citie shalbe in the middes thereof.
Ezekiel 48:16	And these shall be the measures thereof, the North part fiue hundreth and foure thousand, and the South parte fiue hundreth and foure thousande, and the East parte fiue hundreth and foure thousande, and the West parte fiue hundreth and foure thousande.
Ezekiel 48:17	And the suburbes of the citie shall be toward the North two hundreth and fiftie, and towarde the South two hundreth and fiftie, and towarde the East two hundreth and fiftie, and towarde the West two hundreth and fiftie.
Ezekiel 48:18	And the residue in length ouer against the oblation of the holy portion shalbe ten thousand Eastwarde, and ten thousand Westwarde: and it shalbe ouer against the oblation of the holy portion, and the encrease thereof shall be for foode vnto them that serue in the citie.
Ezekiel 48:19	And they that serue in the citie, shalbe of all the tribes of Israel that shall serue therein.
Ezekiel 48:20	All the oblation shalbe fiue and twentie thousand with fiue and twentie thousand: you shall offer this oblation foure square for the Sanctuarie, and for the possession of the citie.
Ezekiel 48:21	And the residue shalbe for the prince on the one side and on the other of the oblation of the Sanctuarie, and of the possession of the citie, ouer against the fiue and twentie thousand of the oblation toward the East border, and Westward ouer against the fiue and twentie thousande towarde the West border, ouer against shalbe for the portion of the prince: this shall be the holy oblation, and the house of the Sanctuarie shalbe in the middes thereof.
Ezekiel 48:22	Moreouer, from the possession of the Leuites, and from the possession of the citie, that which is in the middes shall be the princes: betweene the border of Iudah, and betweene the border of Beniamin shall be the princes.
Ezekiel 48:23	And the rest of the tribes shalbe thus: from the East parte vnto the West parte Beniamin shalbe a portion.
Ezekiel 48:24	And by the border of Beniamin, from the East side vnto the West side Simeon a portion.
Ezekiel 48:25	And by the border of Simeon from the East part vnto the West part, Isshachar a portion.
Ezekiel 48:26	And by the border of Isshachar, from the East side vnto the West, Zebulun a portion.
Ezekiel 48:27	And by the border of Zebulun from the East parte vnto the West part, Gad a portion.
Ezekiel 48:28	And by the border of Gad at the South side, towarde Temath, the border shall be euen from Tamar vnto the waters of Meribath in Kadesh, and to the riuer, that runneth into the maine sea.
Ezekiel 48:29	This is the lande, which ye shall distribute vnto the tribes of Israel for inheritance, and these are their portions, saith the Lord God.
Ezekiel 48:30	And these are the boundes of the citie, on the North side fiue hundreth, and foure thousande measures.
Ezekiel 48:31	And the gates of the citie shalbe after the names of the tribes of Israel, the gates Northwarde, one gate of Reuben, one gate of Iudah, and one gate of Leui.
Ezekiel 48:32	And at the East side fiue hundreth and foure thousande, and three gates, and one gate of Ioseph, one gate of Beiamin, and one gate of Dan.
Ezekiel 48:33	And at the South side, fiue hundreth and foure thousande measures, and three portes, one gate of Simeon, one gate of Isshachar, and one gate of Zebulun.
Ezekiel 48:34	At the West side, fiue hundreth and foure thousand, with their three gates, one gate of Gad, one gate of Asher, and one gate of Naphtali.
Ezekiel 48:35	It was rounde about eighteene thousande measures, and the name of the citie from that day shalbe, The Lord is there.
