GENEVA 1599 PUBLIC DOMAIN CORPUS

===== BOOK: 1 Chronicles =====
1 Chronicles 1:1	Adam, Sheth, Enosh,
1 Chronicles 1:2	Kenan, Mahalaleel, Iered,
1 Chronicles 1:3	Henoch, Methushelah, Lamech,
1 Chronicles 1:4	Noah, She, Ham, and Iapheth.
1 Chronicles 1:5	The sonnes of Iapheth were Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Iauan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.
1 Chronicles 1:6	And the sonnes of Gomer, Ashchenaz, and Iphath and Togarmah.
1 Chronicles 1:7	Also the sonnes of Iauan, Elishah and Tarshishah, Kittim, and Dodanim.
1 Chronicles 1:8	The sonnes of Ham were Cush, and Mizraim, Put and Canaan.
1 Chronicles 1:9	And the sonnes of Cush, Siba and Hauilah, and Sabta, and Raamah, and Sabtecha. Also the sonnes of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan.
1 Chronicles 1:10	And Cush begate Nimrod, who began to be mightie in the earth.
1 Chronicles 1:11	And Mizraim begate Ludim and Anamim, Lehabim, and Naphtuhim:
1 Chronicles 1:12	Pathrusim also, and Casluhim, of whome came the Philistims, and Caphtorim.
1 Chronicles 1:13	Also Canaan begate Zidon his first borne, and Heth,
1 Chronicles 1:14	And the Iebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,
1 Chronicles 1:15	And the Hiuuite, and the Arkite, and the Simite,
1 Chronicles 1:16	And the Aruadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.
1 Chronicles 1:17	The sonnes of Shem were Elam and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram, and Vz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.
1 Chronicles 1:18	Also Arpachshad begate Shelah, and Shelah begate Eber.
1 Chronicles 1:19	Vnto Eber also were borne two sonnes: the name of the one was Peleg: for in his dayes was ye earth deuided: and his brothers name was Ioktan.
1 Chronicles 1:20	Then Ioktan begate Almodad and Sheleph, and Hazermaueth and Ierah,
1 Chronicles 1:21	And Hadoram and Vzal and Diklah,
1 Chronicles 1:22	And Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba,
1 Chronicles 1:23	And Ophir, and Hauilah and Iobab: all these were the sonnes of Ioktan.
1 Chronicles 1:24	Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah,
1 Chronicles 1:25	Eber, Peleg, Rehu,
1 Chronicles 1:26	Serug, Nahor, Terah,
1 Chronicles 1:27	Abram, which is Abraham.
1 Chronicles 1:28	The sonnes of Abraham were Izhak, and Ishmael.
1 Chronicles 1:29	These are their generations. The eldest sonne of Ishmael was Nebaioth, and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,
1 Chronicles 1:30	Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,
1 Chronicles 1:31	Ietur, Naphish and Kedemah: these are the sonnes of Ishmael.
1 Chronicles 1:32	And Keturah Abrahams concubine bare sonnes, Zimran, and Iokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah: and the sonnes of Iokshan, Sheba, and Dedan.
1 Chronicles 1:33	And the sonnes of Midian were Ephah, and Ephar, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaah: All these are the sonnes of Keturah.
1 Chronicles 1:34	And Abraham begate Izhak: the sonnes of Izhak, Esau, and Israel.
1 Chronicles 1:35	The sonnes of Esau were Eliphaz, Reuel, and Ieush, and Iaalam, and Korah.
1 Chronicles 1:36	The sonnes of Eliphaz, Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek.
1 Chronicles 1:37	The sonnes of Reuel, Nahath, Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah.
1 Chronicles 1:38	And the sonnes of Seir, Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan.
1 Chronicles 1:39	And the sonnes of Lotan, Hori, and Homam, and Timna Lotans sister.
1 Chronicles 1:40	The sonnes of Shobal were Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sonnes of Zibeon, Aiah and Anah.
1 Chronicles 1:41	The sonne of Anah was Dishon. And the sonnes of Dishon, Amran, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.
1 Chronicles 1:42	The sonnes of Ezer were Bilhan, and Zaauan, and Iaakan. The sonnes of Dishon were Vz, and Aran.
1 Chronicles 1:43	And these were the Kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before a King reigned ouer the children of Israel, to wit, Bela the sonne of Beor, and the name of his citie was Dinhabah.
1 Chronicles 1:44	Then Bela died, and Iobab the sonne of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead.
1 Chronicles 1:45	And whe Iobab was dead, Hussham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead.
1 Chronicles 1:46	And when Hussham was dead, Hadad the sonne of Bedad which smote Midian in the fielde of Moab, reigned in his steade, and the name of his citie was Auith.
1 Chronicles 1:47	So Hadad dyed, and Samlah of Mashrecah reigned in his stead.
1 Chronicles 1:48	And Samlah dyed, and Shaul of Rehoboth by the riuer reigned in his stead.
1 Chronicles 1:49	And when Shaul was dead, Baal-hanan the sonne of Achbor reigned in his stead.
1 Chronicles 1:50	And Baal-hanan dyed, and Hadad reigned in his stead, and the name of his citie was Pai, and his wiues name Mehetabel the daughter of Matred the daughter of Mezahab.
1 Chronicles 1:51	Hadad dyed also, and there were dukes in Edom, duke Timna, duke Aliah, duke Ietheth,
1 Chronicles 1:52	Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon,
1 Chronicles 1:53	Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar,
1 Chronicles 1:54	Duke Magdiel, duke Iram: these were the dukes of Edom.
1 Chronicles 2:1	These are the sonnes of Israel, Reuben, Simeon, Leui and Iudah, Isshachar, and Zebulun,
1 Chronicles 2:2	Dan, Ioseph, and Beniamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
1 Chronicles 2:3	The sonnes of Iudah, Er, and Onan, and Shelah. these three were borne to him of ye daughter of Shua the Canaanite: but Er the eldest sonne of Iudah was euil in the sight of the Lord, and he slew him.
1 Chronicles 2:4	And Thamar his daughter in law bare him Pharez, and Zerah: so al the sonnes of Iudah were fiue.
1 Chronicles 2:5	The sonnes of Pharez, Hezron and Hamul.
1 Chronicles 2:6	The sonnes also of Zerah were Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara, which were fiue in all.
1 Chronicles 2:7	And the sonne of Carmi, Achar that troubled Israel, transgressing in the thing excommunicate.
1 Chronicles 2:8	The sonne also of Ethan, Azariah.
1 Chronicles 2:9	And the sonnes of Hezron that were borne vnto him, Ierahmeel, and Ram and Chelubai.
1 Chronicles 2:10	And Ram begate Aminadab, and Aminadab begate Nahshon prince of the children of Iudah,
1 Chronicles 2:11	And Nahshon begate Salma, and Salma begate Boaz,
1 Chronicles 2:12	And Boaz begate Obed, and Obed begate Ishai,
1 Chronicles 2:13	And Ishai begate his eldest sonne Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimma the third,
1 Chronicles 2:14	Nathaneel the fourth, Raddai the fift,
1 Chronicles 2:15	Ozem the sixt, and Dauid the seuenth.
1 Chronicles 2:16	Whose sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. And the sonnes of Zeruiah, Abishai, and Ioab, and Asahel.
1 Chronicles 2:17	And Abigail bare Amasa: and the father of Amasa was Iether an Ishmeelite.
1 Chronicles 2:18	And Caleb the sonne of Hezron begate Ierioth of Azubah his wife, and her sonnes are these, Iesher, and Shobab, and Ardon.
1 Chronicles 2:19	And when Azubah was dead, Caleb tooke vnto him Ephrath, which bare him Hur.
1 Chronicles 2:20	And Hur begate Vri, and Vri begate Bezaleel.
1 Chronicles 2:21	And afterward came Hezron to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, and tooke her when hee was threescore yere olde, and shee bare him Segub.
1 Chronicles 2:22	And Segub begate Iair, which had three and twentie cities in the land of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 2:23	And Gesthur with Aram tooke the townes of Iair from them, and Kenath and the townes thereof, euen threescore cities. All these were the sonnes of Machir the father of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 2:24	And after that Hezron was dead at Caleb Ephratah, then Abiah Hezrons wife bare him also Ashur the father of Tekoa.
1 Chronicles 2:25	And ye sonnes of Ierahmeel the eldest sone of Hezron were Ram the eldest, then Bunah, and Oren and Ozen and Ahiiah.
1 Chronicles 2:26	Also Ierahmeel had another wife named Atarah, which was the mother of Onam.
1 Chronicles 2:27	And the sonnes of Ram the eldest sonne of Ierahmeel were Maaz, and Iamin and Ekar.
1 Chronicles 2:28	And the sonnes of Onam were Shammai and Iada. And the sonnes of Shammai, Nadab and Abishur.
1 Chronicles 2:29	And the name of the wife of Abishur was called Abiahil, and shee bare him Ahban and Molid.
1 Chronicles 2:30	The sonnes also of Nadab were Seled and Appaim: but Seled died without children.
1 Chronicles 2:31	And the sonne of Appaim was Ishi, and the sonne of Ishi, Sheshan, and the sonne of Sheshan, Ahlai.
1 Chronicles 2:32	And the sonnes of Iada the brother of Shammai were Iether and Ionathan: but Iether dyed without children.
1 Chronicles 2:33	And the sonnes of Ionathan were Peleth and Zaza. These were the sonnes of Ierahmeel.
1 Chronicles 2:34	And Sheshan had no sonnes, but daughters. And Sheshan had a seruant that was an Egyptian named Iarha.
1 Chronicles 2:35	And Sheshan gaue his daughter to Iarha his seruant to wife, and she bare him Attai.
1 Chronicles 2:36	And Attai begate Nathan, and Nathan begate Zabad,
1 Chronicles 2:37	And Zabad begate Ephlal, and Ephlal begate Obed,
1 Chronicles 2:38	And Obed begate Iehu, and Iehu begate Azariah,
1 Chronicles 2:39	And Azariah begate Helez, and Helez begate Eleasah,
1 Chronicles 2:40	And Eleasah begate Sisamai, and Sisamai begate Shallum,
1 Chronicles 2:41	And Shallum begate Iekamiah, and Iekamiah begate Elishama.
1 Chronicles 2:42	Also the sonnes of Caleb the brother of Ierahmeel, were Mesha his eldest sonne, which was the father of Ziph: and the sonnes of Mareshah the father of Hebron.
1 Chronicles 2:43	And the sonnes of Hebron were Korah and Tappuah, and Rekem and Shema.
1 Chronicles 2:44	And Shema begate Raham the father of Iorkoam: and Rekem begate Shammai.
1 Chronicles 2:45	The sonne also of Shammai was Maon: and Maon was the father of Beth-zur.
1 Chronicles 2:46	And Ephah a concubine of Caleb bare Haran and Moza, and Gazez: Haran also begate Gazez.
1 Chronicles 2:47	The sonnes of Iahdai were Regem, and Iotham, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph.
1 Chronicles 2:48	Calebs concubine Maachah bare Sheber and Tirhanah.
1 Chronicles 2:49	She bare also Shaaph, the father of Madmannah, and Sheua the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea. And Achsah was Calebs daughter.
1 Chronicles 2:50	These were the sonnes of Caleb the sone of Hur the eldest sonne of Ephrathah, Shobal the father of Kiriath-iearim.
1 Chronicles 2:51	Salma the father of Beth-lehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-gader.
1 Chronicles 2:52	And Shobal the father of Kiriath-iearim had sonnes, and he was the ouerseer of halfe Hammenoth.
1 Chronicles 2:53	And the families of Kiriath-iearim were the Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and ye Mishraites of them came the Zarreathites, and the Eshtaulites.
1 Chronicles 2:54	The sonnes of Salma of Beth-lehem, and the Netophathite, the crownes of the house of Ioab, and halfe the Manahthites and the Zorites.
1 Chronicles 2:55	And the families of the Scribes dwelling at Iabez, the Tirathites, the Shimmeathites, the Shuchathites, which are the Kenites, that came of Hammath the father of the house of Rechab.
1 Chronicles 3:1	These also were the sonnes of Dauid which were borne vnto him in Hebron: the eldest Amnon of Ahinoam, the Izraelitesse: the seconde Daniel of Abigail the Carmelitesse:
1 Chronicles 3:2	The third Absalom the sonne of Maachah daughter of Talmai King of Geshur: the fourth Adoniiah the sonne of Haggith:
1 Chronicles 3:3	The fift Shepatiah of Abital: ye sixt Ithream by Eglah his wife.
1 Chronicles 3:4	These sixe were borne vnto him in Hebron: and there hee reigned seuen yeere and sixe moneths: and in Ierusalem he reigned three and thirtie yeere.
1 Chronicles 3:5	And these foure were borne vnto him in Ierusalem, Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Salomon of Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel:
1 Chronicles 3:6	Ibhar also, and Elishama, and Eliphalet,
1 Chronicles 3:7	And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Iaphia,
1 Chronicles 3:8	And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine in nomber.
1 Chronicles 3:9	These are all the sonnes of Dauid, besides the sonnes of the concubines, and Thamar their sister.
1 Chronicles 3:10	And Salomons sonne was Rehoboam, whose sonne was Abiah, and Asa his sonne, and Iehoshaphat his sonne,
1 Chronicles 3:11	And Ioram his sonne, and Ahaziah his sonne, and Ioash his sonne,
1 Chronicles 3:12	And Amaziah his sonne, and Azariah his sonne, and Iotham his sonne,
1 Chronicles 3:13	And Ahaz his sonne, and Hezekiah his sonne, and Manasseh his sonne,
1 Chronicles 3:14	And Amon his sonne, and Iosiah his sonne.
1 Chronicles 3:15	And of the sonnes of Iosiah, the eldest was Iohanan, the second Iehoiakim, the thirde Zedekiah, and the fourth Shallum.
1 Chronicles 3:16	And the sonnes of Iehoiakim were Ieconiah his sonne, and Zedekiah his sonne.
1 Chronicles 3:17	And the sonnes of Ieconiah, Assir and Shealtiel his sonne:
1 Chronicles 3:18	Malchiram also and Pedaiah, and Shenazar, Iecamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
1 Chronicles 3:19	And the sonnes of Pedaiah were Zerubbabel, and Shimei: and the sonnes of Zerubbabel were Meshullam, and Hananiah, and Shelomith their sister,
1 Chronicles 3:20	And Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hazadiah, and Iushabheshed, fiue in nomber.
1 Chronicles 3:21	And the sonnes of Hananiah were Pelatiah, and Iesaiah: the sonnes of Rephaiah, the sonnes of Arnan, the sonnes of Obadiah, the sonnes of Shechaniah.
1 Chronicles 3:22	And the sonne of Shechaniah was Shemaiah: and the sonnes of Shemaiah were Hattush and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, sixe.
1 Chronicles 3:23	And the sonnes of Neariah were Elioenai, and Hezekiiah, and Azrikam, three.
1 Chronicles 3:24	And the sonnes of Elioenai were Hodaiah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Iohanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seuen.
1 Chronicles 4:1	The sonnes of Iudah were Pharez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.
1 Chronicles 4:2	And Reaiah the sonne of Shobal begat Iahath, and Iahath begate Ahumai, and Lahad: these are the families of the Zoreathites.
1 Chronicles 4:3	And these were of the father of Etam, Izreel, and Ishma and Idbash: and the name of their sister was Hazelelponi.
1 Chronicles 4:4	And Penuel was the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah: these are the sonnes of Hur the eldest sonne of Ephratah, the father of Beth-lehem.
1 Chronicles 4:5	But Asher the father of Tekoa had two wiues, Heleah, and Naarah.
1 Chronicles 4:6	And Naarah bare him Ahuzam, and Hepher, and Temeni and Haashtari: these were the sonnes of Naarah.
1 Chronicles 4:7	And the sonnes of Heleah were Zereth, Iezohar and Ethnan.
1 Chronicles 4:8	Also Coz begate Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the sonne of Harum.
1 Chronicles 4:9	But Iabez was more honourable then his brethren: and his mother called his name Iabez, saying, Because I bare him in sorowe.
1 Chronicles 4:10	And Iabez called on the God of Israel, saying, If thou wilt blesse me in deede, and enlarge my coastes, and if thine hand be with me, and thou wilt cause me to be deliuered from euill, that I be not hurt. And God graunted the thing that he asked.
1 Chronicles 4:11	And Chelub the brother of Shuah begate Mehir, which was the father of Eshton.
1 Chronicles 4:12	And Eshton begate Beth-rapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of the citie of Nahash: these are the men of Rechah.
1 Chronicles 4:13	And the sonnes of Kenaz were Othniel and Zeraiah, and the sonne of Othniel, Hathath.
1 Chronicles 4:14	And Meonothai begate Ophrah. And Seraiah begate Ioab the father of the valley of craftesmen: for they were craftesmen.
1 Chronicles 4:15	And the sonnes of Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh were Iru, Elah, and Naam. And the sonne of Elah was Kenaz.
1 Chronicles 4:16	And the sonnes of Iehaleel were Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asareel.
1 Chronicles 4:17	And the sonnes of Ezrah were Iether and Mered, and Epher, and Ialon, and he begate Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa.
1 Chronicles 4:18	Also his wife Iehudiiah bare Iered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Socho, and Iekuthiel the father of Zanoah: and these are the sonnes of Bithiah ye daughter of Pharaoh which Mered tooke.
1 Chronicles 4:19	And the sonnes of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham the father of Keilah were the Garmites, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite.
1 Chronicles 4:20	And the sonnes of Shimon were Amnon and Rinnah, Ben-hanam and Tilon. And the sonnes of Ishi were Zoheth, and Benzoheth.
1 Chronicles 4:21	The sonnes of Shelah, the sonne of Iudah were Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the householdes of them that wrought fine linnen in the house of Ashbea.
1 Chronicles 4:22	And Iokim and the men of Chozeba and Ioash, and Saraph, which had the dominion in Moab, and Iashubi Lehem. These also are auncient things.
1 Chronicles 4:23	These were potters, and dwelt among plants and hedges: there they dwelt with the king for his worke.
1 Chronicles 4:24	The sonnes of Simeon were Nemuel, and Iamin, Iarib, Zerah, and Shaul,
1 Chronicles 4:25	Whose sonne was Shallum, and his sonne, Mibsam, and his sonne Mishma.
1 Chronicles 4:26	And the sonnes of Mishma, Hamuel was his sonne, Zacchur his sonne, and Shimei his sonne.
1 Chronicles 4:27	And Shimei had sixteene sonnes, and sixe daughters, but his brethren had not many children, neither was all their familie like to the children of Iudah in multitude.
1 Chronicles 4:28	And they dwelt at Beer-sheba, and at Moladah, and at Hazar Shual,
1 Chronicles 4:29	And at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad,
1 Chronicles 4:30	And at Bethuel, and at Hormah, and at Ziklag,
1 Chronicles 4:31	And at Beth-marcaboth, and at Hazar Susim, at Beth-birei, and at Shaaraim, these were their cities vnto the reigne of Dauid.
1 Chronicles 4:32	And their townes were Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, fiue cities.
1 Chronicles 4:33	And all their townes that were rounde about these cities vnto Baal, These are their habitations and the declaration of their genealogie,
1 Chronicles 4:34	And Meshobab, and Iamlech, and Ioshah the sonne of Amashiah,
1 Chronicles 4:35	And Ioel and Iehu the sonne of Ioshibiah, the sonne of Seraiah, the sonne of Asiel,
1 Chronicles 4:36	And Elionai, and Iaakobah, and Ieshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Iesimiel, and Benaiah,
1 Chronicles 4:37	And Ziza the sonne of Shiphei, the sonne of Allon, the sonne of Iedaiah, the sonne of Shimri, the sonne of Shemaiah.
1 Chronicles 4:38	These were famous princes in their families, and increased greatly their fathers houses.
1 Chronicles 4:39	And they went to the entring in of Gedor, euen vnto the East side of the valley, to seeke pasture for their sheepe.
1 Chronicles 4:40	And they found fat pasture and good, and a wide land, both quiet and fruitfull: for they of Ham had dwelt there before.
1 Chronicles 4:41	And these described by name, came in the dayes of Hezekiah king of Iudah, and smote their tents, and the inhabitants that were found there, and destroyed them vtterly vnto this day, and dwelt in their roume, because there was pasture there for their sheepe.
1 Chronicles 4:42	And besides these, fiue hundreth men of the sonnes of Simeon went to mount Seir, and Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rophaiah, and Vzziel the sonnes of Ishi were their captaines,
1 Chronicles 4:43	And they smote the rest of Amalek that had escaped, and they dwelt there vnto this day.
1 Chronicles 5:1	The sonnes also of Reuben the eldest sonne of Israel (for he was the eldest, but had defiled his fathers bed, therefore his birthright was giuen vnto the sonnes of Ioseph the sonne of Israel, so that the genealogie is not rekoned after his birthright.
1 Chronicles 5:2	For Iudah preuailed aboue his brethren, and of him came the prince, but the birthright was Iosephs)
1 Chronicles 5:3	The sonnes of Reuben the eldest sonne of Israel, were Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi.
1 Chronicles 5:4	The sonnes of Ioel, Shemaiah his sonne, Gog his sonne, and Shimei his sonne,
1 Chronicles 5:5	Michah his sonne, Reaiah his sonne, and Baal his sonne,
1 Chronicles 5:6	Beerah his sonne: whom Tilgath Pilneeser King of Asshur caryed away: he was a prince of the Reubenites.
1 Chronicles 5:7	And when his brethren in their families rekoned the genealogie of their generations, Ieiel and Zechariah were the chiefe,
1 Chronicles 5:8	And Bela the sonne of Azaz, the sonne of Shema, the sonne of Ioel, which dwelt in Aroer, euen vnto Nebo and Baal meon.
1 Chronicles 5:9	Also Eastwarde he inhabited vnto the entring in of the wildernes from the riuer Perath for they had much cattel in the land of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 5:10	And in the dayes of Saul they warred with the Hagarims, which fell by their hands: and they dwelt in their tentes in all the East partes of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 5:11	And the children of Gad dwelt ouer against them in the land of Bashan, vnto Salchah.
1 Chronicles 5:12	Ioel was the chiefest, and Shapham the second, but Iaanai and Shaphat were in Bashan.
1 Chronicles 5:13	And their brethren of the house of their fathers were Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Sorai, and Iacan, and Zia and Eber, seuen.
1 Chronicles 5:14	These are the childre of Abihail, the sonne of Huri, the sonne of Iaroah, the sonne of Gilead, the sonne of Michael, the sonne of Ieshishai, the sonne of Iahdo, the sonne of Buz.
1 Chronicles 5:15	Ahi the sonne of Abdiel, the sonne of Guni was chiefe of the houshold of their fathers.
1 Chronicles 5:16	And they dwelt in Gilead in Bashan, and in the townes thereof, and in all the suburbes of Sharon by their borders.
1 Chronicles 5:17	All these were rekoned by genealogies in the dayes of Iotham King of Iudah, and in the dayes of Ieroboam King of Israel.
1 Chronicles 5:18	The sonnes of Reuben and of Gad, and of halfe the tribe of Manasseh of those that were viliant men, able to beare shield, and sworde, and to draw a bowe, exercised in warre, were foure and fourtie thousand, seuen hundreth and three score, that went out to the warre.
1 Chronicles 5:19	And they made warre with the Hagarims, with Ietur, and Naphish, and Nodab.
1 Chronicles 5:20	And they were holpen against them, and the Hagarims were deliuered into their hande, and all that were with them: for they cryed to God in the battel, and he heard them, because they trusted in him.
1 Chronicles 5:21	And they led away their cattel, euen their camels fiftie thousand, and two hundreth, and fiftie thousand sheepe, and two thousand asses, and of persons an hundreth thousand.
1 Chronicles 5:22	For many fel downe wounded, because the warre was of God. And they dwelt in their steads vntill the captiuitie.
1 Chronicles 5:23	And the children of the halfe tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land, from Baashan vnto Baal Hermon, and Senir, and vnto mount Hermon: for they increased.
1 Chronicles 5:24	And these were the heads of the housholds of their fathers, euen Epher and Ishi, and Eliel and Azriel, and Ieremiah, and Hodauiah, and Iahdiel, strong men, valiant and famous, heades of the housholdes of their fathers.
1 Chronicles 5:25	But they transgressed against the God of their fathers, and went a whoring after the gods of the people of the lande, whome God had destroyed before them.
1 Chronicles 5:26	And the God of Israel stirred vp the spirit of Pul king of Asshur, and the spirite of Tilgath Pilneeser king of Asshur, and he caryed them away: euen the Reubenites and the Gadites, and the halfe tribe of Manasseh, and brought them vnto Halah and Habor, and Hara, and to the riuer Gozan, vnto this day.
1 Chronicles 6:1	The sonnes of Leui were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
1 Chronicles 6:2	And the sonnes of Kohath, Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Vzziel.
1 Chronicles 6:3	And the children of Amram, Aaron, and Moses and Miriam. And the sonnes of Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 6:4	Eleazar begate Phinehas. Phinehas begate Abishua,
1 Chronicles 6:5	And Abishua begate Bukki, and Bukki begate Vzzi,
1 Chronicles 6:6	And Vzzi begate Zerahiah, and Zerahiah begate Meraioth.
1 Chronicles 6:7	Meraioth begate Amariah, and Amariah begate Ahitub,
1 Chronicles 6:8	And Ahitub begate Zadok, and Zadok begate Ahimaaz,
1 Chronicles 6:9	And Ahimaaz begate Azariah, and Azariah begate Iohanan,
1 Chronicles 6:10	And Iohanan begate Azariah (it was hee that was Priest in the house that Salomon built in Ierusalem)
1 Chronicles 6:11	And Azariah begate Amariah, and Amariah begate Ahitub,
1 Chronicles 6:12	And Ahitub begate Zadok, and Zadok begate Shallum,
1 Chronicles 6:13	And Shallum begate Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begate Azariah,
1 Chronicles 6:14	And Azariah begate Seraiah, and Seraiah begate Iehozadak,
1 Chronicles 6:15	And Iehozadak departed when the Lord caried away into captiuitie Iudah and Ierusalem by the hand of Nebuchad-nezzar.
1 Chronicles 6:16	The sonnes of Leui were Gershom, Kohath and Merari.
1 Chronicles 6:17	And these be the names of the sonnes of Gershom, Libni, and Shimei.
1 Chronicles 6:18	And the sonnes of Kohath were Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron and Vzziel.
1 Chronicles 6:19	The sonnes of Merari, Mahli and Mushi: and these are the families of Leui concerning their fathers.
1 Chronicles 6:20	Of Gershom, Libni his sonne, Iahath his sonne, Zimmah his sonne,
1 Chronicles 6:21	Ioah his sonne, Iddo his sonne, Zerah his sonne, Ieaterai his sonne.
1 Chronicles 6:22	The sonnes of Kohath, Aminadab his sonne, Korah his sonne, Assir his sonne,
1 Chronicles 6:23	Elkanah his sonne, and Ebiasaph his sonne, and Assir his sonne,
1 Chronicles 6:24	Tahath his sonne, Vriel his sonne, Vzziah his sonne, and Shaul his sonne,
1 Chronicles 6:25	And the sonnes of Elkanah, Amasai, and Ahimoth.
1 Chronicles 6:26	Elkanah. the sonnes of Elkanah, Zophai his sonne, and Nahath his sonne,
1 Chronicles 6:27	Eliab his sonne, Ieroham his sonne, Elkanah his sonne,
1 Chronicles 6:28	And the sonnes of Shemuel, the eldest Vashni, then Abiah.
1 Chronicles 6:29	The sonnes of Merari were Mahli, Libni his sonne, Shimei his sonne, Vzzah his sonne,
1 Chronicles 6:30	Shimea his sonne, Haggiah his sonne, Asaiah his sonne.
1 Chronicles 6:31	And these be they whom Dauid set for to sing in the house of the Lord, after that the Arke had rest.
1 Chronicles 6:32	And they ministred before the Tabernacle, euen the Tabernacle of the Congregation with singing, vntill Salomon had built ye house of the Lord in Ierusalem: then they continued in their office, according to their custome.
1 Chronicles 6:33	And these ministred with their children: of the sonnes of Kohath, Heman a singer, the sonne of Ioel, the sonne of Shemuel,
1 Chronicles 6:34	The sonne of Elkanah, the sonne of Ieroham, the sonne of Eliel, the sonne of Toah,
1 Chronicles 6:35	The sonne of Zuph, the sonne of Elkanah, the sonne of Mahath, the sonne of Amasai,
1 Chronicles 6:36	The sonne of Elkanah, the sonne of Ioel, the sonne of Azariah, the sonne of Zephaniah,
1 Chronicles 6:37	The sonne of Tahath, the sonne of Assir, the sonne of Ebiasaph, the sonne of Korah,
1 Chronicles 6:38	The sonne of Izhar, the sonne of Kohath, the sonne of Leui, the sonne of Israel.
1 Chronicles 6:39	And his brother Asaph stoode on his right hand: and Asaph was the sonne of Berechiah, the sonne of Shimea,
1 Chronicles 6:40	The sonne of Michael, the sonne of Baaseiah, the sonne of Malchiah,
1 Chronicles 6:41	The sonne of Ethni, the sonne of Zerah, the sonne of Adaiah,
1 Chronicles 6:42	The sonne of Ethan, the sonne of Zimmah, the sonne of Shimei,
1 Chronicles 6:43	The sonne of Iahath, the sonne of Gershom, the sonne of Leui.
1 Chronicles 6:44	And their brethren the sonnes of Merari were on the left hand, euen Ethan the sonne of Kishi, the sonne of Abdi, the sonne of Malluch,
1 Chronicles 6:45	The sonne of Hashabiah, the sonne of Amaziah, the sonne of Hilkiah,
1 Chronicles 6:46	The sonne of Amzi, the sonne of Bani, the sonne of Shamer,
1 Chronicles 6:47	The sonne of Mahli, the sonne of Mushi, the sonne of Merari, the sonne of Leui.
1 Chronicles 6:48	And their brethren the Leuites were appointed vnto all the seruice of the Tabernacle of the house of God,
1 Chronicles 6:49	But Aaron and his sonnes burnt incense vpon the altar of burnt offering, and on the altar of incense, for all that was to do in the most holy place, and to make an atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the seruant of God had commanded.
1 Chronicles 6:50	These are also the sonnes of Aaron, Eleazar his sonne, Phinehas his sonne, Abishua his sonne,
1 Chronicles 6:51	Bukki his sonne, Vzzi his sonne, Zerahiah his sonne,
1 Chronicles 6:52	Meraioth his sonne, Amariah his sonne, Ahitub his sonne,
1 Chronicles 6:53	Zadok his sonne, and Ahimaaz his sonne.
1 Chronicles 6:54	And these are the dwelling places of them throughout their townes and coastes, euen of the sonnes of Aaron for the familie of the Kohathites, for the lot was theirs.
1 Chronicles 6:55	So they gaue them Hebron in the lande of Iudah and the suburbes thereof rounde about it.
1 Chronicles 6:56	But the fielde of the citie, and the villages thereof they gaue to Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh.
1 Chronicles 6:57	And to the sonnes of Aaron they gaue the cities of Iudah for refuge, euen Hebron and Libna with their suburbes, and Iattir, and Eshtemoa with their suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:58	And Hilen with her suburbes, and Debir with her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:59	And Ashan and her suburbes, and Bethshemesh and her suburbes:
1 Chronicles 6:60	And of the tribe of Beniamin, Geba and her suburbes, and Alemeth with her suburbes, and Anathoth with her suburbes: all their cities were thirteene cities by their families.
1 Chronicles 6:61	And vnto the sonnes of Kohath the remnant of the familie of the tribe, euen of the halfe tribe of the halfe of Manasseh, by lot ten cities.
1 Chronicles 6:62	And to the sonnes of Gershom according to their families out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteene cities.
1 Chronicles 6:63	Vnto the sonnes of Merari according to their families out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, by lot twelue cities.
1 Chronicles 6:64	Thus the children of Israel gaue to the Leuites cities with their suburbes.
1 Chronicles 6:65	And they gaue by lot out of the tribe of the children of Iudah, and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the children of Beniamin, these cities, which they called by their names.
1 Chronicles 6:66	And they of the families of the sonnes of Kohath, had cities and their coastes out of the tribe of Ephraim.
1 Chronicles 6:67	And they gaue vnto them cities of refuge, Shechem in mount Ephraim, and her suburbes, and Gezer and her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:68	Iokmeam also and her suburbes, and Bethhoron with her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:69	And Aialon and her suburbes, and Gath Rimmon and her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:70	And out of the halfe tribe of Manasseh, Aner and her suburbes, and Bileam and her suburbes, for the families of the remnant of the sonnes of Kohath.
1 Chronicles 6:71	Vnto the sonnes of Gershom out of the familie of the halfe tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan, and her suburbes, and Ashtaroth with her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:72	And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kedesh and her suburbes, Daberath and her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:73	Ramoth also and her suburbes, and Anem with her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:74	And out of the tribe of Asher, Mashal and her suburbes, and Abdon and her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:75	And Hukok and her suburbs, and Rehob and her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:76	And out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilea and her suburbes, and Hammon and her suburbes, and Kiriathaim and her suburbes.
1 Chronicles 6:77	Vnto the rest of the children of Merari were giuen out of ye tribe of Zebulun Rimmon and her suburbes, Tabor and her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:78	And on the other side Iorden by Iericho, euen on the Eastside of Iorden, out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the wildernesse with her suburbes, and Iahzah with her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:79	And Kedemoth with her suburbes, and Mephaath with her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:80	And out of the tribe of Gad Ramoth in Gilead with her suburbes, and Mahanaim with her suburbes,
1 Chronicles 6:81	And Heshbon with her suburbes, and Iaazer with her suburbes.
1 Chronicles 7:1	And the sonnes of Issachar were Tola and Puah, Iashub, and Shimron, foure,
1 Chronicles 7:2	And the sonnes of Tola, Vzzi, and Rephaiah, and Ieriel, and Iahmai, and Iibsam, and Shemuel, heads in the housholdes of their fathers. Of Tola were valiant men of warre in their generations, whose nomber was in the dayes of Dauid two and twentie thousand, and sixe hundreth.
1 Chronicles 7:3	And the sonne of Vzzi was Izrahaiah, and the sonnes of Izrahaiah, Michael, and Obadiah, and Ioel, and Isshiah, fiue men all princes.
1 Chronicles 7:4	And with them in their generations after the houshold of their fathers were bandes of men of warre for battel, sixe and thirtie thousand: for they had many wiues and children.
1 Chronicles 7:5	And their brethren among all the families of Issachar were valiant men of warre, rekoned in all by their genealogies foure score and seuen thousand.
1 Chronicles 7:6	The sonnes of Beniamin were Bela, and Becher, and Iediael, three.
1 Chronicles 7:7	And the sonnes of Bela, Ezbon, and Vzzi, and Vzziel, and Ierimoth, and Iri, fiue heads of the housholds of their fathers, valiant men of warre, and were rekoned by their genealogies, two and twentie thousand and thirtie and foure.
1 Chronicles 7:8	And the sonnes of Becher, Zemirah, and Ioash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Ierimoth, and Abiah, and Anathoth, and Alameth: all these were the sonnes of Becher.
1 Chronicles 7:9	And they were nombred by their genealogies according to their generations, and the chiefe of the houses of their fathers, valiant men of warre, twenty thousand and two hundreth.
1 Chronicles 7:10	And the sonne of Iediael was Bilhan, and the sonnes of Bilhan, Ieush, and Beniamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tharshish, and Ahishahar.
1 Chronicles 7:11	All these were the sonnes of Iediael, chiefe of the fathers, valiant men of warre, seuenteene thousand and two hundreth, marching in battel aray to the warre.
1 Chronicles 7:12	And Shuppim, and Huppim were ye sonnes of Ir, but Hushim was the sonne of another.
1 Chronicles 7:13	The sonnes of Naphtali, Iahziel, and Guni, and Iezer, and Shallum of the sonnes of Bilhah.
1 Chronicles 7:14	The sonne of Manasseh was Ashriel whom she bare vnto him, but his concubine of Aram bare Machir the father of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 7:15	And Machir tooke to wife the sister of Huppim and Shuppim, and the name of their sister was Maachah. And the name of the second sonne was Zelophehad, and Zelophehad had daughters.
1 Chronicles 7:16	And Maachah the wife of Machir bare a sonne, and called his name Peresh, and the name of his brother was Sheresh: and his sonnes were Vlam and Rakem.
1 Chronicles 7:17	And the sonne of Vlam was Bedan. These were the sonnes of Gilead the sonne of Machir, the sonne of Manasseh.
1 Chronicles 7:18	And his sister Molecheth bare Ishod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.
1 Chronicles 7:19	And the sonnes of Shemida were Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam.
1 Chronicles 7:20	The sonnes also of Ephraim were Shuthelah, and Bered his sonne, and Tahath his sonne, and his sonne Eladah, and Tahath his sonne,
1 Chronicles 7:21	And Zabad his sonne, and Shuthelah his sonne, and Ezer, and Elead: and the men of Gath that were borne in the land, slewe them, because they came downe to take away their cattel.
1 Chronicles 7:22	Therefore Ephraim their father mourned many dayes, and his brethren came to comfort him.
1 Chronicles 7:23	And when he went in to his wife, she conceiued, and bare him a sonne, and he called his name Beriah, because affliction was in his house.
1 Chronicles 7:24	And his daughter was Sherah, which built Beth-horon the nether, and the vpper, and Vzzen Sheerah.
1 Chronicles 7:25	And Rephah was his sonne, and Resheph, and Telah his sonne, and Tahan his sonne,
1 Chronicles 7:26	Laadan his sonne, Ammihud his sonne, Elishama his sonne,
1 Chronicles 7:27	Non his sonne, Iehoshua his sonne.
1 Chronicles 7:28	And their possessions and their habitations were Beth-el, and the villages thereof, and Eastward Naaran, and Westwarde Gezer with the villages thereof, Shechem also and the villages thereof, vnto Azzah, and the villages thereof,
1 Chronicles 7:29	And by the places of the children of Manasseh, Beth-shean and her villages, Taanach and her villages, Megiddo and her villages, Dor and her villages. In those dwelt the children of Ioseph the sonne of Israel.
1 Chronicles 7:30	The sonnes of Asher were Imnah, and Isuah, and Ishuai, and Beriah, and Serah their sister.
1 Chronicles 7:31	And the sonnes of Beriah, Heber, and Malchiel, which is the father of Birzauith.
1 Chronicles 7:32	And Heber begate Iaphlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shuah their sister.
1 Chronicles 7:33	And the sonnes of Iaphlet were Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashuath: these were the children of Iaphlet.
1 Chronicles 7:34	And the sonnes of Shamer, Ahi, and Rohgah, Iehubbah, and Aram.
1 Chronicles 7:35	And the sonnes of his brother Helem were Zophah, and Iimna, and Shelesh and Amal.
1 Chronicles 7:36	The sonnes of Zophah, Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,
1 Chronicles 7:37	Bezer and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.
1 Chronicles 7:38	And the sonnes of Iether, Iephunneh, and Pispa and Ara.
1 Chronicles 7:39	And the sonnes of Vlla, Harah, and Haniel, and Rizia.
1 Chronicles 7:40	All these were the children of Asher, the heads of their fathers houses, noble men, valiant men of warre and chiefe princes, and they were rekoned by their genealogies for warre and for battell to the nomber of sixe and twentie thousand men.
1 Chronicles 8:1	Beniamin also begate Bela his eldest sonne, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third,
1 Chronicles 8:2	Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fift.
1 Chronicles 8:3	And the sonnes of Bela were Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,
1 Chronicles 8:4	And Abishua, and Naaman and Ahoah,
1 Chronicles 8:5	And Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.
1 Chronicles 8:6	And these are the sonnes of Ehud: these were the chiefe fathers of those that inhabited Geba: and they were caryed away captiues to Monahath,
1 Chronicles 8:7	And Naaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, he caryed them away captiues: and he begate Vzza, and Ahihud.
1 Chronicles 8:8	And Shaharaim begate certaine in the coutrey of Moab, after he had sent away Hushim and Baara his wiues.
1 Chronicles 8:9	He begate, I say, of Hodesh his wife, Iobab and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcham,
1 Chronicles 8:10	And Ieuz and Shachia and Mirma: these were his sonnes, and chiefe fathers.
1 Chronicles 8:11	And of Hushim he begat Ahitub and Elpaal.
1 Chronicles 8:12	And the sonnes of Elpaal were Eber, and Misham and Shamed (which built Ono, and Lod, and the villages thereof)
1 Chronicles 8:13	And Beriah and Shema (which were the chiefe fathers among the inhabitants of Aialon: they draue away the inhabitants of Gath)
1 Chronicles 8:14	And Ahio, Shashak and Ierimoth,
1 Chronicles 8:15	And Sebadiah, and Arad, and Ader,
1 Chronicles 8:16	And Michael, and Ispah, and Ioha, the sonnes of Beriah,
1 Chronicles 8:17	And Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hizki, and Heber,
1 Chronicles 8:18	And Ishmerai and Izliah, and Iobab, the sonnes of Elpaal,
1 Chronicles 8:19	Iakim also, and Zichri, and Sabdi,
1 Chronicles 8:20	And Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel,
1 Chronicles 8:21	And Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrah the sonnes of Shimei,
1 Chronicles 8:22	And Ishpan, and Eber, and Eliel,
1 Chronicles 8:23	And Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,
1 Chronicles 8:24	And Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothiiah,
1 Chronicles 8:25	Iphedeiah and Penuel ye sonnes of Shashak,
1 Chronicles 8:26	And Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah,
1 Chronicles 8:27	And Iaareshiah, and Eliah, and Zichri, the sonnes of Ieroham.
1 Chronicles 8:28	These were the chiefe fathers according to their generations, euen princes, which dwelt in Ierusalem.
1 Chronicles 8:29	And at Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Maachah.
1 Chronicles 8:30	And his eldest sonne was Abdon, then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,
1 Chronicles 8:31	And Gidor, and Ahio, and Zacher.
1 Chronicles 8:32	And Mikloth begate Shimeah: these also dwelt with their brethren in Ierusalem, euen by their brethren.
1 Chronicles 8:33	And Ner begate Kish, and Kish begat Saul, and Saul begate Ionathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
1 Chronicles 8:34	And the sonne of Ionathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal begate Micah.
1 Chronicles 8:35	And the sonnes of Micah were Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz.
1 Chronicles 8:36	And Ahaz begate Iehoadah, and Iehoadah begate Alemeth, and Azmaueth, and Zimri, and Zimri begate Moza,
1 Chronicles 8:37	And Moza begate Bineah, whose sonne was Raphah, and his sonne Eleasah, and his sonne Azel.
1 Chronicles 8:38	And Azel had sixe sonnes, whose names are these, Azrikam, Bocheru and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan: all these were the sonnes of Azel.
1 Chronicles 8:39	And the sonnes of Eshek his brother were Vlam his eldest sonne, Iehush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
1 Chronicles 8:40	And the sonnes of Vlam were valiant men of warre which shot with the bow, and had many sonnes and nephewes, an hundreth and fiftie: all these were of the sonnes of Beniamin.
1 Chronicles 9:1	Thus all Israel were nombred by their genealogies: and beholde, they are written in the booke of the Kings of Israel and of Iudah, and they were caried away to Babel for their transgression.
1 Chronicles 9:2	And the chiefe inhabitants that dwelt in their owne possessions, and in their owne cities, euen Israel the Priestes, the Leuites, and the Nethinims.
1 Chronicles 9:3	And in Ierusalem dwelt of the children of Iudah, and of the children of Beniamin, and of the children of Ephraim, and Manasseh.
1 Chronicles 9:4	Vthai the sonne of Amihud the sonne of Omri, the sonne of Imri, the sonne of Bani: of the children of Pharez, the sonne of Iudah.
1 Chronicles 9:5	And of Shiloni, Asaiah the eldest, and his sonnes.
1 Chronicles 9:6	And the sonnes of Zerah, Ieuel, and their brethren sixe hundreth and ninetie.
1 Chronicles 9:7	And of the sonnes of Beniamin, Sallu the sonne of Meshullam, the sonne of Hodauiah, the sonne of Hasenuah,
1 Chronicles 9:8	And Ibneiah the sonne of Ieroham, and Elah the sonne of Vzzi, the sonne of Michri, and Meshullam the sonne of Shephatiah, the sonne of Reuel, the sonne of Ibniiah.
1 Chronicles 9:9	And their brethren according to their generations nine hundreth, fiftie and sixe: all these men were chiefe fathers in the housholdes of their fathers.
1 Chronicles 9:10	And of the Priestes, Iedaiah, and Iehoiarib, and Iachin,
1 Chronicles 9:11	And Azariah the sonne of Hilkiah, ye sonne of Meshullam, the sonne of Zadok, the sonne of Meraioth, the sonne of Ahitub the chiefe of the house of God,
1 Chronicles 9:12	And Adaiah the sonne of Ieroham, ye sonne of Pashur, the sonne of Malchiiah, and Maasai the sonne of Adiel, the sonne of Iahzerah, the sonne of Meshullam, the sonne of Meshillemith, the sonne of Immer.
1 Chronicles 9:13	And their brethre the chiefe of the households of their fathers a thousand, seuen hundreth and three score valiant men, for the worke of the seruice of the house of God.
1 Chronicles 9:14	And of the Leuites, Shemaiah the sonne of Hasshub, the sonne of Azrikam, the sonne of Hashabiah of the sonnes of Merari,
1 Chronicles 9:15	And Bakbakkar, Heresh and Galal, and Mattaniah the sonne of Micha, the sonne of Zichri, the sonne of Asaph,
1 Chronicles 9:16	And Obadiah the sonne of Shemaiah, the sonne of Galal, the sonne of Ieduthun, and Berechiah, the sonne of Asa, the sonne of Elkanah, that dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites.
1 Chronicles 9:17	And the porters were Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman, and their brethren: Shallum was the chiefe.
1 Chronicles 9:18	For they were porters to this time by companies of the children of Leui vnto the Kinges gate eastward.
1 Chronicles 9:19	And Shallum the sonne of Kore the sonne of Ebiasaph the sonne of Korah, and his brethren the Korathites (of the house of their father) were ouer the worke, and office to keepe the gates of the Tabernacle: so their families were ouer the hoste of the Lord, keeping the entrie.
1 Chronicles 9:20	And Phinehas ye sonne of Eleazar was their guide, and the Lord was with him.
1 Chronicles 9:21	Zechariah the sonne of Meshelemiah was the porter of the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
1 Chronicles 9:22	All these were chosen for porters of the gates, two hundreth and twelue, which were nombred according to their genealogies by their townes. Dauid established these and Samuel the Seer in their perpetuall office.
1 Chronicles 9:23	So they and their children had the ouersight of the gates of the house of the Lord, euen of the house of the Tabernacle by wardes.
1 Chronicles 9:24	The porters were in foure quarters Eastward, Westward, Northward and Southward.
1 Chronicles 9:25	And their brethren, which were in their townes, came at seuen dayes from time to time with them.
1 Chronicles 9:26	For these foure chiefe porters were in perpetuall office, and were of the Leuites and had charge of the chambers, and of the treasures in the house of God.
1 Chronicles 9:27	And they lay rounde about the house of God, because the charge was theirs, and they caused it to be opened euery morning.
1 Chronicles 9:28	And certaine of them had the rule of the ministring vessels: for they brought them in by tale, and brought them out by tale.
1 Chronicles 9:29	Some of them also were appoynted ouer the instruments, and ouer all the vessels of the Sanctuarie, and of the floure, and the wine, and the oyle, and the incense, and the sweete odours.
1 Chronicles 9:30	And certaine of the sonnes of the Priestes made oyntments of sweete odours.
1 Chronicles 9:31	And Mattithiah one of the Leuites which was the eldest sonne of Shallum the Korhite, had the charge of the things that were made in the frying panne.
1 Chronicles 9:32	And other of their brethren the sonnes of Kohath had the ouersight of the shewbread to prepare it euery Sabbath.
1 Chronicles 9:33	And these are the singers, the chiefe fathers of the Leuites, which dwelt in the chambers, and had none other charge: for they had to do in that busines day and night:
1 Chronicles 9:34	These were the chiefe fathers of the Leuites according to their generations, and the principall which dwelt at Ierusalem.
1 Chronicles 9:35	And in Gibeon dwelt ye father of Gibeon, Ieiel, and the name of his wife was Maachah.
1 Chronicles 9:36	And his eldest sonne was Abdon, then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab,
1 Chronicles 9:37	And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.
1 Chronicles 9:38	And Mikloth begate Shimeam: they also dwelt with their brethren at Ierusalem, euen by their brethren.
1 Chronicles 9:39	And Ner begate Kish, and Kish begate Saul, and Saul begate Ionathan and Malchishua, and Abinadab and Eshbaal.
1 Chronicles 9:40	And the sonne of Ionathan was Merib-baal: and Merib-baal begate Micah.
1 Chronicles 9:41	And the sonnes of Micah were Pithon, and Melech and Tahrea.
1 Chronicles 9:42	And Ahaz begate Iarah, and Iarah begat Alemeth, and Azmaueth, and Zimri, and Zimri begate Moza.
1 Chronicles 9:43	And Moza begate Binea, whose sonne was Rephaiah, and his sonne was Eleasah, and his sonne Azel.
1 Chronicles 9:44	And Azel had sixe sonnes, whose names are these, Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ismael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan: these are the sonnes of Azel.
1 Chronicles 10:1	Then the Philistims fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled before the Philistims, and fell downe slaine in mount Gilboa.
1 Chronicles 10:2	And the Philistims pursued after Saul and after his sonnes, and the Philistims smote Ionathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua the sonnes of Saul.
1 Chronicles 10:3	And the battel was sore against Saul; and the archers hit him, and he was wounded of the archers.
1 Chronicles 10:4	Then sayde Saul to his armour bearer, Drawe out thy sworde, and thrust me thorowe therewith, lest these vncircumcised come and mocke at me: but his armour bearer would not, for he was sore afraid: therefore Saul tooke the sword and fell vpon it.
1 Chronicles 10:5	And when his armour bearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise vpon the sworde, and dyed.
1 Chronicles 10:6	So Saul dyed and his three sonnes, and all his house, they dyed together.
1 Chronicles 10:7	And when all the men of Israel that were in the valley, sawe how they fledde, and that Saul and his sonnes were dead, they forsooke their cities, and fled away, and the Philistims came, and dwelt in them.
1 Chronicles 10:8	And on the morrowe when the Philistims came to spoyle them that were slaine, they found Saul and his sonnes lying in mount Gilboa.
1 Chronicles 10:9	And when they had stript him, they tooke his head and his armour, and sent them into the land of the Philistims round about, to publish it vnto their idoles, and to the people.
1 Chronicles 10:10	And they layd vp his armour in the house of their god, and set vp his head in the house of Dagon.
1 Chronicles 10:11	When all they of Iabesh Gilead heard all that the Philistims had done to Saul,
1 Chronicles 10:12	Then they arose (all the valiant men) and tooke the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sonnes, and brought them to Iabesh, and buryed the bones of them vnder an oke in Iabesh, and fasted seuen dayes.
1 Chronicles 10:13	So Saul dyed for his transgression, that he committed against the Lord, euen against the word of the Lord, which he kept not, and in that he sought and asked counsel of a familiar spirit,
1 Chronicles 10:14	And asked not of the Lord: therefore he slewe him, and turned the kingdome vnto Dauid the sonne of Ishai.
1 Chronicles 11:1	Then all Israel gathered themselues to Dauid vnto Hebron, saying, Beholde, we are thy bones and thy flesh.
1 Chronicles 11:2	And in time past, euen when Saul was King, thou leddest Israel out and in: and the Lord thy God sayde vnto thee, Thou shalt feede my people Israel, and thou shalt be captaine ouer my people Israel.
1 Chronicles 11:3	So came all the Elders of Israel to the King to Hebron, and Dauid made a couenant with them in Hebron before the Lord. And they anoynted Dauid King ouer Israel, according to the word of the Lord by the hand of Samuel.
1 Chronicles 11:4	And Dauid and all Israel went to Ierusalem, which is Iebus, where were the Iebusites, the inhabitants of the land.
1 Chronicles 11:5	And the inhabitants of Iebus said to Dauid, Thou shalt not come in hither. Neuertheles Dauid tooke the towre of Zion, which is the city of Dauid.
1 Chronicles 11:6	And Dauid sayd, Whosoeuer smiteth the Iebusites first, shalbe the chiefe and captaine. So Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah went first vp, and was captaine.
1 Chronicles 11:7	And Dauid dwelt in the tower: therefore they called it the citie of Dauid.
1 Chronicles 11:8	And he built the citie on euery side, from Millo euen round about, and Ioab repaired the rest of the citie.
1 Chronicles 11:9	And Dauid prospered, and grewe: for the Lord of hostes was with him.
1 Chronicles 11:10	These also are the chiefe of the valiant men that were with Dauid, and ioyned their force with him in his kingdome with al Israel, to make him King ouer Israel, according to the worde of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 11:11	And this is the nomber of the valiant men whome Dauid had, Iashobeam the sonne of Hachmoni, the chiefe among thirtie: he lift vp his speare against three hundreth, whom he slewe at one time.
1 Chronicles 11:12	And after him was Eleazar the sonne of Dodo the Ahohite, which was one of the three valiant men.
1 Chronicles 11:13	He was with Dauid at Pas-dammim, and there the Philistims were gathered together to battel: and there was a parcell of ground full of barley, and the people fled before the Philistims.
1 Chronicles 11:14	And they stood in the middes of the field, and saued it, and slewe the Philistims: so the Lord gaue a great victorie.
1 Chronicles 11:15	And three of the thirtie captaines went to a rocke to Dauid, into the caue of Adullam. And the armie of the Philistims camped in the valley of Rephaim.
1 Chronicles 11:16	And when Dauid was in the hold, the Philistims garison was at Beth-lehem.
1 Chronicles 11:17	And Dauid longed, and said, Oh, that one would giue me to drinke of the water of the well of Beth-lehem that is at the gate.
1 Chronicles 11:18	Then these three brake thorowe the hoste of the Philistims, and drewe water out of the well of Beth-lehem that was by the gate, and tooke it and brought it to Dauid: but Dauid would not drinke of it, but powred it for an oblation to the Lord,
1 Chronicles 11:19	And said, Let not my God suffer me to do this: should I drinke the blood of these mens liues? for they haue brought it with the ieopardie of their liues: therefore he would not drinke it: these things did these three mightie men.
1 Chronicles 11:20	And Abishai the brother of Ioab, he was chiefe of the three, and he lift vp his speare against three hundreth, and slew them, and had the name among the three.
1 Chronicles 11:21	Among the three he was more honourable then the two, and he was their captaine: but he attained not vnto the first three.
1 Chronicles 11:22	Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada (the sonne of a valiant man) which had done many actes, and was of Kabzeel, he slewe two strong men of Moab: he went downe also and slewe a lion in the middes of a pit in time of snowe.
1 Chronicles 11:23	And he slewe an Egyptian, a man of great stature, euen fiue cubites long, and in the Egyptians hand was a speare like a weauers beame: and he went downe to him with a staffe, and plucked the speare out of the Egyptians hand, and slewe him with his owne speare.
1 Chronicles 11:24	These things did Benaiah ye sonne of Iehoiada, and had the name among the three worthies.
1 Chronicles 11:25	Behold, he was honourable among thirtie, but he attained not vnto the first three. And Dauid made him of his counsell.
1 Chronicles 11:26	These also were valiant men of warre, Asahel the brother of Ioab, Elhanan the sonne of Dodo of Beth-lehem,
1 Chronicles 11:27	Shammoth the Harodite, Helez the Pelonite,
1 Chronicles 11:28	Ira the sonne of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Antothite,
1 Chronicles 11:29	Sibbecai the Husathite, Ilai the Ahohite,
1 Chronicles 11:30	Maharai the Netophathite, Heled ye sonne of Baanah the Netophathite,
1 Chronicles 11:31	Ithai the sonne of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Beniamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,
1 Chronicles 11:32	Hurai of the riuers of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,
1 Chronicles 11:33	Azmaueth the Baharumite, Elihaba the Shaalbonite,
1 Chronicles 11:34	The sonnes of Hashem the Gizonite, Ionathan the sonne of Shageh the Harite,
1 Chronicles 11:35	Ahiam the sonne of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the sonne of Vr,
1 Chronicles 11:36	Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahiiah the Pelonite,
1 Chronicles 11:37	Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the sonne of Ezbai,
1 Chronicles 11:38	Ioel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the sonne of Haggeri,
1 Chronicles 11:39	Zelek the Ammonite, Nahrai the Berothite, the armour bearer of Ioab, the sonne of Zeruiah,
1 Chronicles 11:40	Ira the Ithrite, Garib the Ithrite,
1 Chronicles 11:41	Vriah the Hittite, Zabad the sonne of Ahlai,
1 Chronicles 11:42	Adina the sonne of Shiza the Reubenite, a captaine of the Reubenites, and thirtie with him,
1 Chronicles 11:43	Hanan the sonne of Maachah, and Ioshaphat the Mithnite,
1 Chronicles 11:44	Vzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Ieiel the sonnes of Otham the Aroerite,
1 Chronicles 11:45	Iediael the sonne of Shimri, and Ioha his brother the Tizite,
1 Chronicles 11:46	Eliel the Mahauite, and Ieribai and Ioshauiah the sonnes of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,
1 Chronicles 11:47	Eliel and Obed, and Iaasiel the Mesobaite.
1 Chronicles 12:1	These also are they that came to Dauid to Ziklag, while he was yet kept close, because of Saul the sonne of Kish: and they were among the valiant and helpers of the battel.
1 Chronicles 12:2	They were weaponed with bowes, and could vse the right and the left hand with stones and with arrowes and with bowes, and were of Sauls brethren, euen of Beniamin.
1 Chronicles 12:3	The chiefe were Ahiezer, and Ioash the sonnes of Shemaah a Gibeathite, and Ieziel, and Pelet the sonnes of Asinaueth, Berachah and Iehu the Antothite,
1 Chronicles 12:4	And Ishmaiah the Gibeonite, a valiant man among thirtie, and aboue the thirtie, and Ieremiah, and Iehaziel, and Iohanan, and Ioshabad the Gederathite,
1 Chronicles 12:5	Eluzai, and Ierimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite,
1 Chronicles 12:6	Elkanah, and Ishiah, and Azariel, and Ioezer, Iashobeam of Hakorehim,
1 Chronicles 12:7	And Ioelah, and Zebadiah, the sonnes of Ieroham of Gedor,
1 Chronicles 12:8	And of the Gadites there separated them selues some vnto Dauid into the holde of the wildernesse, valiant men of warre, and men of armes, and apt for battel, which coulde handle speare and shielde, and their faces were like the faces of lyons, and were like the roes in the mountaines in swiftnesse,
1 Chronicles 12:9	Ezer the chiefe, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third,
1 Chronicles 12:10	Mishmanah the fourth, Ieremiah the fift,
1 Chronicles 12:11	Attai the sixt, Eliel the seuenth,
1 Chronicles 12:12	Iohanan the eight, Elzabad the ninth,
1 Chronicles 12:13	Ieremiah the tenth, Macbannai the eleuenth.
1 Chronicles 12:14	These were the sonnes of Gad, captaines of the hoste: one of the least could resist an hundreth, and the greatest a thousand.
1 Chronicles 12:15	These are they that went ouer Iorden in the first moneth when he had filled ouer all his bankes, and put to flight all them of the valley, toward the East and the West.
1 Chronicles 12:16	And there came of the children of Beniamin, and Iudah to the hold vnto Dauid,
1 Chronicles 12:17	And Dauid went out to meete them, and answered and sayde vnto them, If yee be come peaceably vnto me to helpe me, mine heart shall be knit vnto you, but if you come to betray me to mine aduersaries, seeing there is no wickednes in mine handes, the God of our fathers beholde it, and rebuke it.
1 Chronicles 12:18	And the spirit came vpon Amasai, which was the chiefe of thirtie, and he said, Thine are we, Dauid, and with thee, O sonne of Ishai. Peace, peace be vnto thee, and peace be vnto thine helpers: for thy God helpeth thee. Then Dauid receiued them, and made them captaines of the garison.
1 Chronicles 12:19	And of Manasseh some fell to Dauid, when he came with the Philistims against Saul to battell, but they helped them not: for the Princes of the Philistims by aduisement sent him away, saying, He will fall to his master Saul for our heads.
1 Chronicles 12:20	As he went to Ziklag, there fell to him of Manasseh, Adnah, and Iozabad, and Iediael, and Michael, and Iozabad, and Elihu, and Ziltai, heads of the thousands that were of Manasseh.
1 Chronicles 12:21	And they helped Dauid against that bad: for they were all valiant men and were captaines in the hoste.
1 Chronicles 12:22	For at that time day by day there came to Dauid to helpe him, vntill it was a great hoste, like the hoste of God.
1 Chronicles 12:23	And these are the nombers of the captaines that were armed to battell, and came to Dauid to Hebron to turne the kingdome of Saul to him, according to the worde of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 12:24	The children of Iudah that bare shield and speare, were sixe thousand and eight hundreth armed to the warre.
1 Chronicles 12:25	Of the children of Simeon valiant men of warre, seuen thousand and an hundreth.
1 Chronicles 12:26	Of the children of Leui foure thousande and sixe hundreth.
1 Chronicles 12:27	And Iehoiada was the chiefe of them of Aaron: and with him three thousande and seuen hundreth.
1 Chronicles 12:28	And Zadok a yong man very valiant, and of his fathers housholde came two and twentie captaines.
1 Chronicles 12:29	And of the children of Beniamin the brethren of Saul three thousande: for a great part of them vnto that time kept the warde of the house of Saul.
1 Chronicles 12:30	And of the children of Ephraim twentie thousande, and eight hundreth valiant men and famous men in the housholde of their fathers.
1 Chronicles 12:31	And of the halfe tribe of Manasseh eighteene thousand, which were appointed by name to come and make Dauid King.
1 Chronicles 12:32	And of the children of Issachar which were men that had vnderstanding of the times, to knowe what Israel ought to doe: the heades of them were two hundreth, and all their brethren were at their commandement.
1 Chronicles 12:33	Of Zebulun that went out to battel, expert in warre, and in all instruments of warre, fiftie thousande which could set the battell in aray: they were not of a double heart.
1 Chronicles 12:34	And of Naphtali a thousand captaines, and with them with shielde and speare seuen and thirtie thousande.
1 Chronicles 12:35	And of Dan expert in battell, eyght and twentie thousande, and sixe hundreth.
1 Chronicles 12:36	And of Asher that went out to the battell and were trained in the warres, fourtie thousand.
1 Chronicles 12:37	And of the other side of Iorden of the Reubenites, and of the Gadites, and of the halfe tribe of Manasseh with all instruments of warre to fight with, an hundreth and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 12:38	All these men of warre that coulde leade an armie, came with vpright heart to Hebron to make Dauid King ouer all Israel: and all the rest of Israel was of one accorde to make Dauid King:
1 Chronicles 12:39	And there they were with Dauid three dayes, eating and drinking: for their brethren had prepared for them.
1 Chronicles 12:40	Moreouer they that were neere them vntill Issachar, and Zebulun, and Naphtali brought bread vpon asses, and on camels, and on mules, and on oxen, euen meate, floure, figges, and reisins, and wine and oyle, and beeues and sheepe abundantly: for there was ioy in Israel.
1 Chronicles 13:1	And Dauid counselled with the captaines of thousandes and of hundreths, and with all the gouernours.
1 Chronicles 13:2	And Dauid said to all the Congregation of Israel, If it seeme good to you, and that it proceedeth of the Lord our God, we will sende to and from vnto our brethren, that are left in all the lande of Israel (for with them are the Priests and the Leuites in the cities and their suburbes) that they may assemble them selues vnto vs.
1 Chronicles 13:3	And we will bring againe the Arke of our God to vs: for we sought not vnto it in the dayes of Saul.
1 Chronicles 13:4	And all the Congregation answered, Let vs doe so: for the thing seemed good in the eyes of all the people.
1 Chronicles 13:5	So Dauid gathered all Israel together from Shihor in Egypt, euen vnto the entring of Hamath, to bring the Arke of God from Kiriath-iearim.
1 Chronicles 13:6	And Dauid went vp and all Israel to Baalath, in Kiriath-iearim, that was in Iudah, to bring vp from thence the Arke of God the Lord that dwelleth betweene the Cherubims, where his Name is called on.
1 Chronicles 13:7	And they caryed the Arke of God in a newe cart out of the house of Abinadab: and Vzza and Ahio guided the cart.
1 Chronicles 13:8	And Dauid and all Israel played before God with all their might, both with songes and with harpes, and with violes, and with timbrels and with cymbales and with trumpets.
1 Chronicles 13:9	And when they came vnto the thresshing floore of Chidon, Vzza put forth his hand to holde the Arke, for the oxen did shake it.
1 Chronicles 13:10	But the wrath of the Lord was kindled against Vzza, and he smote him, because he layed his hande vpon the Arke: so he dyed there before God.
1 Chronicles 13:11	And Dauid was angrie, because the Lord had made a breach in Vzza, and he called the name of that place Perez-vzza vnto this day.
1 Chronicles 13:12	And Dauid feared God that day, saying, Howe shall I bring in to me the Arke of God?
1 Chronicles 13:13	Therefore Dauid brought not the Arke to him into the citie of Dauid, but caused it to turne into the house of Obed Edom the Gittite.
1 Chronicles 13:14	So the Arke of God remained in the house of Obed Edom, euen in his house three moneths: and the Lord blessed the house of Obed Edom, and all that he had.
1 Chronicles 14:1	Then sent Hiram the King of Tyrus messengers to Dauid, and cedar trees, with masons and carpenters to builde him an house.
1 Chronicles 14:2	Therefore Dauid knewe that the Lord had confirmed him King ouer Israel, and that his kingdome was lift vp on hie, because of his people Israel.
1 Chronicles 14:3	Also Dauid tooke moe wiues at Ierusalem, and Dauid begate moe sonnes and daughters.
1 Chronicles 14:4	And these are the names of the children which he had at Ierusalem, Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Salomon,
1 Chronicles 14:5	And Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpalet,
1 Chronicles 14:6	And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Iaphia,
1 Chronicles 14:7	And Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphalet.
1 Chronicles 14:8	But when the Philistims heard that Dauid was anointed King ouer Israel, all the Philistims came vp to seeke Dauid. And when Dauid heard, he went out against them.
1 Chronicles 14:9	And the Philistims came, and spred them selues in the valley of Rephaim.
1 Chronicles 14:10	Then Dauid asked counsel at God, saying, Shall I goe vp against the Philistims, and wilt thou deliuer them into mine hande? And the Lord saide vnto him, Goe vp: for I will deliuer them into thine hande.
1 Chronicles 14:11	So they came vp to Baal-perazim, and Dauid smote them there: and Dauid said, God hath deuided mine enemies with mine hande, as waters are deuided: therefore they called the name of that place, Baal-perazim.
1 Chronicles 14:12	And there they had left their gods: and Dauid said, Let them euen be burnt with fire.
1 Chronicles 14:13	Againe the Philistims came and spread them selues in the valley.
1 Chronicles 14:14	And when Dauid asked againe counsell at God, God said to him, Thou shalt not goe vp after them, but turne away from them, that thou mayest come vpon them ouer against the mulberie trees.
1 Chronicles 14:15	And when thou hearest the noyse of one going in the toppes of the mulberie trees, then goe out to battel: for God is gone foorth before thee, to smite the hoste of the Philistims.
1 Chronicles 14:16	So Dauid did as God had commanded him: and they smote the hoste of the Philistims from Gibeon euen to Gezer.
1 Chronicles 14:17	And the fame of Dauid went out into all landes, and the Lord brought the feare of him vpon all nations.
1 Chronicles 15:1	And Dauid made him houses in the citie of Dauid, and prepared a place for the Arke of God, and pitched for it a tent.
1 Chronicles 15:2	Then Dauid saide, None ought to carie the Arke of God, but the Leuites: for the Lord hath chosen them to beare the Arke of the Lord, and to minister vnto him for euer.
1 Chronicles 15:3	And Dauid gathered all Israel together to Ierusalem to bring vp the Arke of the Lord vnto his place, which he had ordeined for it.
1 Chronicles 15:4	And Dauid assembled the sonnes of Aaron, and the Leuites.
1 Chronicles 15:5	Of the sonnes of Kohath, Vriel the chiefe, and his brethren sixe score.
1 Chronicles 15:6	Of the sonnes of Merari, Asaiah the chiefe, and his brethren two hundreth and twentie.
1 Chronicles 15:7	Of the sonnes of Gershom, Ioel the chiefe, and his brethren an hundreth and thirtie.
1 Chronicles 15:8	Of the sonnes of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chiefe, and his brethren two hundreth.
1 Chronicles 15:9	Of the sonnes of Hebron, Eliel the chiefe, and his brethren fourescore.
1 Chronicles 15:10	Of the sonnes of Vzziel, Amminadab the chiefe, and his brethren an hundreth and twelue.
1 Chronicles 15:11	And Dauid called Zadok and Abiathar the Priestes, and of the Leuites, Vriel, Asaiah and Ioel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, and Amminadab:
1 Chronicles 15:12	And he saide vnto them, Ye are the chiefe fathers of the Leuites: sanctifie your selues, and your brethren, and bring vp the Arke of the Lord God of Israel vnto the place that I haue prepared for it.
1 Chronicles 15:13	For because ye were not there at the first, the Lord our God made a breach among vs: for we sought him not after due order.
1 Chronicles 15:14	So the Priestes and the Leuites sanctified them selues to bring vp the Arke of the Lord God of Israel.
1 Chronicles 15:15	And the sonnes of the Leuites bare the Arke of God vpon their shoulders with the barres, as Moses had commanded, according to the worde of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 15:16	And Dauid spake to the chiefe of the Leuites, that they should appoint certaine of their brethren to sing with instruments of musike, with violes and harpes, and cymbales, that they might make a sounde, and lift vp their voyce with ioye.
1 Chronicles 15:17	So the Leuites appointed Heman the sonne of Ioel, and of his brethren Asaph the sonne of Berechiah, and of the sonnes of Merari their brethren, Ethan the sonne of Kushaiah,
1 Chronicles 15:18	And with them their brethren in the seconde degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Iaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Iehiel, and Vnni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneah, and Obed Edom, and Ieiel the porters.
1 Chronicles 15:19	So Heman, Asaph and Ethan were fingers to make a sounde with cymbales of brasse,
1 Chronicles 15:20	And Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Iehiel, and Vnni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah with violes on Alamoth,
1 Chronicles 15:21	And Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneah, and Obed Edom, and Ieiel, and Azaziah, with harpes vpon Sheminith Ienazzeah.
1 Chronicles 15:22	But Chenaniah the chiefe of the Leuites had the charge, bearing ye burden in the charge, for he was able to instruct.
1 Chronicles 15:23	And Berechiah and Elkanah were porters for the Arke.
1 Chronicles 15:24	And Shecaniah and Iehoshaphat and Nethaneel and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer the Priestes did blowe with trumpets before the Arke of God, and Obed Edom and Ieiiah were porters for the Arke.
1 Chronicles 15:25	So Dauid and the Elders of Israel and the captaines of thousandes went to bring vp the Arke of the couenant of the Lord from the house of Obed Edom with ioye.
1 Chronicles 15:26	And because that God helped the Leuites that bare the Arke of the couenant of the Lord, they offered seuen bullockes and seuen rammes.
1 Chronicles 15:27	And Dauid had on him a linen garment, as all the Leuites that bare the Arke, and the singers and Chenaniah that had the chiefe charge of the singers: and vpon Dauid was a linnen Ephod.
1 Chronicles 15:28	Thus all Israel brought vp the Arke of the Lordes couenant with shouting and sounde of cornet, and with trumpets, and with cymbales, making a sound with violes and with harpes.
1 Chronicles 15:29	And when the Arke of the couenant of the Lord came into the citie of Dauid, Michal the daughter of Saul looked out at a windowe, and sawe King Dauid dauncing and playing, and she despised him in her heart.
1 Chronicles 16:1	So they brought in the Arke of God, and set it in the middes of the Tabernacle that Dauid had pitched for it, and they offred burnt offrings and peace offrings before God.
1 Chronicles 16:2	And when Dauid had made an ende of offering the burnt offering and the peace offerings, hee blessed the people in the Name of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 16:3	And he dealt to euery one of Israel both man and woman, to euery one a cake of breade, and a piece of flesh, and a bottel of wine.
1 Chronicles 16:4	And he appointed certaine of the Leuites to minister before the Arke of the Lord, and to rehearse and to thanke and prayse the Lord God of Israel:
1 Chronicles 16:5	Asaph the chiefe, and next to him Zechariah, Ieiel, and Shemiramoth, and Iehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed Edom, euen Ieiel with instruments, violes and harpes, and Asaph to make a sound with cymbales,
1 Chronicles 16:6	And Benaiah and Iahaziel Priestes, with trumpets continually before the Arke of the couenant of God.
1 Chronicles 16:7	Then at that time Dauid did appoint at the beginning to giue thankes to the Lord by the hand of Asaph and his brethren.
1 Chronicles 16:8	Praise the Lord and call vpon his Name: declare his workes among the people.
1 Chronicles 16:9	Sing vnto him, sing praise vnto him, and talke of all his wonderfull workes.
1 Chronicles 16:10	Reioyce in his holy Name: let the hearts of them that seeke the Lord reioyce.
1 Chronicles 16:11	Seeke the Lord and his strength: seeke his face continually.
1 Chronicles 16:12	Remember his marueilous workes that he hath done, his wonders, and the iudgements of his mouth,
1 Chronicles 16:13	O seede of Israel his seruant, O the children of Iaakob his chosen.
1 Chronicles 16:14	He is the Lord our God: his iudgements are throughout all the earth.
1 Chronicles 16:15	Remember his couenant for euer, and the worde, which hee commanded to a thousand generations:
1 Chronicles 16:16	Which he made with Abraham, and his othe to Izhak:
1 Chronicles 16:17	And hath confirmed it to Iaakob for a Law, and to Israel for an euerlasting couenant,
1 Chronicles 16:18	Saying, To thee will I giue the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance.
1 Chronicles 16:19	When ye were fewe in number, yea, a very fewe, and strangers therein,
1 Chronicles 16:20	And walked about from nation to nation, and from one kingdome to another people,
1 Chronicles 16:21	He suffered no man to do them wrong, but rebuked Kings for their sakes, saying,
1 Chronicles 16:22	Touch not mine anoynted, and doe my Prophets no harme.
1 Chronicles 16:23	Sing vnto the Lord all the earth: declare his saluation from day to day.
1 Chronicles 16:24	Declare his glory among the nations, and his wonderful workes among all people.
1 Chronicles 16:25	For the Lord is great and much to be praised, and hee is to bee feared aboue all gods.
1 Chronicles 16:26	For all the gods of the people are idoles, but the Lord made the heauens.
1 Chronicles 16:27	Prayse and glory are before him: power and beautie are in his place.
1 Chronicles 16:28	Giue vnto the Lord, ye families of the people: giue vnto the Lord glory and power.
1 Chronicles 16:29	Giue vnto the Lord ye glory of his Name: bring an offring and come before him, and worship the Lord in the glorious Sanctuarie.
1 Chronicles 16:30	Tremble ye before him, al the earth: surely the world shalbe stable and not moue.
1 Chronicles 16:31	Let the heauens reioyce, and let the earth be glad, and let them say among the nations, The Lord reigneth.
1 Chronicles 16:32	Let the sea roare, and all that therein is: Let the field be ioyfull and all that is in it.
1 Chronicles 16:33	Let the trees of the wood then reioyce at the presence of the Lord: for he commeth to iudge the earth.
1 Chronicles 16:34	Prayse the Lord, for hee is good, for his mercie endureth for euer.
1 Chronicles 16:35	And say ye, Saue vs, O God, our saluation, and gather vs, and deliuer vs from the heathen, that we may prayse thine holy Name, and glorie in thy praise.
1 Chronicles 16:36	Blessed be the Lord God of Israel for euer and euer: and let all people say, So be it, and praise the Lord.
1 Chronicles 16:37	Then he left there before the Arke of the Lordes couenant Asaph and his brethren to minister continually before the Arke, that which was to be done euery day:
1 Chronicles 16:38	And Obed Edom and his brethren, three score and eight: and Obed Edom the sonne of Ieduthun, and Hosah were porters.
1 Chronicles 16:39	And Zadok the Priest and his brethren the Priestes were before the Tabernacle of ye Lord, in the hie place that was at Gibeon,
1 Chronicles 16:40	To offer burnt offrings vnto the Lord, vpon the burnt offring altar continually, in the morning and in the euening, euen according vnto all that is written in the law of the Lord, which hee commanded Israel.
1 Chronicles 16:41	And with them were Heman, and Ieduthun, and the rest that were chosen (which were appointed by names) to praise the Lord, because his mercie endureth for euer.
1 Chronicles 16:42	Euen with them were Heman and Ioduthun, to make a sound with the cornets and with the cymbales, with excellent instruments of musicke: and the sonnes of Ieduthun were at the gate.
1 Chronicles 16:43	And all the people departed, euerie man to his house: and Dauid returned to blesse his house.
1 Chronicles 17:1	Nowe afterward when Dauid dwelt in his house, he saide to Nathan the Prophet, Beholde, I dwell in an house of cedar trees, but the Arke of the Lordes couenant remaineth vnder curtaines.
1 Chronicles 17:2	Then Nathan said to Dauid, Do all that is in thine heart: for God is with thee.
1 Chronicles 17:3	And the same night euen the word of God came to Nathan, saying,
1 Chronicles 17:4	Goe, and tell Dauid my seruant, Thus saith the Lord, Thou shalt not buylde me an house to dwell in:
1 Chronicles 17:5	For I haue dwelt in no house, since the day that I brought out the childre of Israel vnto this daye, but I haue bene from tent to tent, and from habitation to habitation.
1 Chronicles 17:6	Wheresoeuer I haue walked with all Israel spake I one word to any of the iudges of Israel (whome I commanded to feede my people) saying, Why haue ye not built mee an house of cedar trees?
1 Chronicles 17:7	Nowe therefore thus shalt thou say vnto my seruant Dauid, Thus saith the Lord of hostes, I tooke thee from the sheepecoat and from following the sheepe, that thou shouldest bee a prince ouer my people Israel.
1 Chronicles 17:8	And I haue bene with thee whithersoeuer thou hast walked, and haue destroyed all thine enemies out of thy sight, and haue made thee a name, like the name of the great men that are in the earth.
1 Chronicles 17:9	(Also I will appoynt a place for my people Israel, and will plant it, that they may dwell in their place, and moue no more: neither shall the wicked people vexe them any more, as at the beginning,
1 Chronicles 17:10	And since the time that I commanded iudges ouer my people Israel) And I wil subdue all thine enemies: therefore I say vnto thee, that the Lord wil buylde thee an house.
1 Chronicles 17:11	And when thy dayes shalbe fulfilled to go with thy fathers, then will I rayse vp thy seede after thee, which shalbe of thy sonnes, and will stablish his kingdome.
1 Chronicles 17:12	He shall builde me an house, and I will stablish his throne for euer.
1 Chronicles 17:13	I wil be his father, and he shalbe my sonne, aud I will not take my mercie away from him, as I tooke it from him that was before thee.
1 Chronicles 17:14	But I wil establish him in mine house, and in my kingdome for euer, and his throne shalbe stablished for euer,
1 Chronicles 17:15	According to all these wordes, and according to al this vision. So Nathan spake to Dauid.
1 Chronicles 17:16	And Dauid the King went in and sate before the Lord and said, Who am I, O Lord God, and what is mine house, that thou hast brought me hitherto?
1 Chronicles 17:17	Yet thou esteeming this a small thing, O God, hast also spoken concerning the house of thy seruaut for a great while, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of hie degree, O Lord God.
1 Chronicles 17:18	What can Dauid desire more of thee for the honour of thy seruant? for thou knowest thy seruant.
1 Chronicles 17:19	O Lord, for thy seruantes sake, euen according to thine heart hast thou done all this great thing to declare all magnificence.
1 Chronicles 17:20	Lord, there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we haue heard with our eares.
1 Chronicles 17:21	Moreouer what one nation in the earth is like thy people Israel, whose God went to redeeme them to be his people, and to make thy selfe a Name, and to doe great and terrible things by casting out nations from before thy people, whom thou hast deliuered out of Egypt?
1 Chronicles 17:22	For thou hast ordeined thy people Israel to be thine owne people for euer, and thou Lord art become their God.
1 Chronicles 17:23	Therefore nowe Lord, let the thing that thou hast spoken concerning thy seruant and concerning his house, be confirmed for euer, and doe as thou hast sayd,
1 Chronicles 17:24	And let thy name be stable and magnified for euer, that it may be sayd, The Lord of hostes, God of Israel, is the God of Israel, and let the house of Dauid thy seruant bee stablished before thee.
1 Chronicles 17:25	For thou, O my God, hast reueiled vnto the eare of thy seruant, that thou wilt builde him an house: therefore thy seruant hath bene bolde to pray before thee.
1 Chronicles 17:26	Therefore nowe Lord (for thou art God, and hast spoken this goodnesse vnto thy seruant)
1 Chronicles 17:27	Now therfore, it hath pleased thee to blesse the house of thy seruant, that it may bee before thee for euer: for thou, O Lord, hast blessed it, and it shalbe blessed for euer.
1 Chronicles 18:1	And after this Dauid smote the Philistims, and subdued them, and tooke Gath, and the villages thereof out of the hand of the Philistims.
1 Chronicles 18:2	And he smote Moab, and the Moabites became Dauids seruants, and brought giftes.
1 Chronicles 18:3	And Dauid smote Hadarezer King of Zobah vnto Hamath, as he went to stablish his border by the riuer Perath.
1 Chronicles 18:4	And Dauid tooke from him a thousand charets, and seuen thousand horsemen, and twentie thousand footemen, and destroyed all the charets, but he reserued of them an hundreth charets.
1 Chronicles 18:5	Then came the Aramites of Damascus to succour Hadarezer King of Zobah, but Dauid slewe of the Aramites two and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 18:6	And Dauid put a garison in Aram of Damascus, and the Aramites became Dauids seruants, and brought giftes: and the Lord preserued Dauid wheresoeuer he went.
1 Chronicles 18:7	And Dauid tooke the shieldes of gold that were of the seruants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Ierusalem.
1 Chronicles 18:8	And from Tibhath, and from Chun (cities of Hadarezer) brought Dauid exceeding much brasse, wherewith Salomon made the brasen Sea, and the pillars and the vessels of brasse.
1 Chronicles 18:9	Then Tou King of Hamath heard howe Dauid had smitten all the hoste of Hadarezer King of Zobah:
1 Chronicles 18:10	Therefore he sent Hadoram his sonne to King Dauid, to salute him, and to reioyce with him, because he had fought against Hadarezer, and beaten him (for Tou had warre with Hadarezer) who brought all vessels of golde and siluer and brasse.
1 Chronicles 18:11	And King Dauid did dedicate them vnto the Lord, with the siluer and golde that hee brought from all the nations, from Edom, and from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistims, and from Amalek.
1 Chronicles 18:12	And Abishai the sonne of Zeruiah smote of Edom in the salt valley eighteene thousand,
1 Chronicles 18:13	And he put a garison in Edom, and all the Edomites became Dauids seruantes: and the Lord preserued Dauid wheresoeuer he went.
1 Chronicles 18:14	So Dauid reigned ouer all Israel, and executed iudgement and iustice to all his people.
1 Chronicles 18:15	And Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah was ouer the hoste, and Iehoshaphat the sonne of Ahilud recorder,
1 Chronicles 18:16	And Zadok the sonne of Ahitub, and Abimelech the sonne of Abiathar were the Priests, and Shausha the Scribe,
1 Chronicles 18:17	And Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada was ouer the Cherethites and the Pelethites: and the sonnes of Dauid were chiefe about the King.
1 Chronicles 19:1	After this also Nahash the King of the children of Ammon dyed, and his sonne reigned in his stead.
1 Chronicles 19:2	And Dauid said, I will shew kindnesse vnto Hanun the sonne of Nahash, because his father shewed kindnesse vnto me. And Dauid sent messengers to comfort him for his father. So the seruants of Dauid came into the lande of the children of Ammon to Hanun to comfort him.
1 Chronicles 19:3	And the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, Thinkest thou that Dauid doeth honour thy father, that he hath sent comforters vnto thee? Are not his seruants come to thee to search, to seeke and to spie out the land?
1 Chronicles 19:4	Wherefore Hanun tooke Dauids seruants, and shaued them, and cut off their garments by the halfe vnto the buttocks, and sent them away.
1 Chronicles 19:5	And there went certaine and tolde Dauid concerning the men: and he sent to meete them (for the men were exceedingly ashamed) and the King saide, Tarie at Iericho, vntill your beardes be growen: then returne.
1 Chronicles 19:6	When the children of Ammon saw that they stanke in the sight of Dauid, then sent Hanun and the children of Ammon a thousande talents of siluer to hire them charets and horsemen out of Aram Naharaim and out of Aram Maachah, and out of Zobah.
1 Chronicles 19:7	And they hired them two and thirty thousande charets, and the King of Maachah and his people, which came and pitched before Medeba: and the children of Ammon gathered themselues together from their cities, and came to the battell.
1 Chronicles 19:8	And when Dauid heard, he sent Ioab and all the hoste of the valiant men.
1 Chronicles 19:9	And the children of Ammon came out, and set their battell in aray at the gate of the citie. And the Kings that were come, were by them selues in the fielde.
1 Chronicles 19:10	When Ioab saw that the front of the battel was against him before and behinde, then he chose out of all the choyse of Israel, and set him selfe in aray to meete the Aramites.
1 Chronicles 19:11	And the rest of the people he deliuered vnto the hande of Abishai his brother, and they put them selues in aray against the children of Ammon.
1 Chronicles 19:12	And he saide, If Aram be too strong for me, then thou shalt succour me: and if the children of Ammon preuaile against thee, then I wil succour thee.
1 Chronicles 19:13	Be strong, and let vs shewe our selues valiant for our people, and for the cities of our God, and let the Lord doe that which is good in his owne sight.
1 Chronicles 19:14	So Ioab and the people that was with him, came neere before the Aramites vnto the battel, and they fled before him.
1 Chronicles 19:15	And when the children of Ammon sawe that the Aramites fled, they fled also before Abishai his brother, and entred into the citie: so Ioab came to Ierusalem.
1 Chronicles 19:16	And when the Aramites sawe that they were discomfited before Israel, they sent messengers and caused the Aramites to come forth that were beyond the riuer: and Shophach the captaine of the hoste of Hadarezer went before them.
1 Chronicles 19:17	And when it was shewed Dauid, he gathered all Israel, and went ouer Iorden, and came vnto them, and put him selfe in aray against them: And when Dauid had put him selfe in battel aray to meete the Aramites, they fought with him.
1 Chronicles 19:18	But the Aramites fled before Israel, and Dauid destroyed of the Aramites seuen thousand charets, and fourtie thousand footemen, and killed Shophach the captaine of the hoste.
1 Chronicles 19:19	And when the seruants of Hadarezer sawe that they fell before Israel, they made peace with Dauid, and serued him. And the Aramites would no more succour the children of Ammon.
1 Chronicles 20:1	And when the yere was expired, in the time that Kings goe out a warfare, Ioab caryed out the strength of the armie, and destroyed the countrey of the children of Ammon, and came and besieged Rabbah (but Dauid taryed at Ierusalem) and Ioab smote Rabbah and destroyed it.
1 Chronicles 20:2	Then Dauid tooke the crowne of their King from off his head, and founde it the weight of a talent of golde, with precious stones in it: and it was set on Dauids head, and he brought away the spoyle of the citie exceeding much.
1 Chronicles 20:3	And he caryed away the people that were in it, and cut them with sawes, and with harowes of yron, and with axes: euen thus did Dauid with all the cities of the children of Ammon. Then Dauid and all the people came againe to Ierusalem.
1 Chronicles 20:4	And after this also there arose warre at Gezer with the Philistims: then Sibbechai the Hushathite slewe Sippai, of the children of Haraphah, and they were subdued.
1 Chronicles 20:5	And there was yet another battell with the Philistims: and Elhanan the sonne of Iair slewe Lahmi, the brother of Goliath the Gittite, whose spearestaffe was like a weauers beame.
1 Chronicles 20:6	And yet againe there was a battel at Gath, where was a man of a great stature, and his fingers were by sixes, euen foure and twentie, and was also the sonne of Haraphah.
1 Chronicles 20:7	And when he reuiled Israel, Iehonathan the sonne of Shimea Dauids brother did slay him.
1 Chronicles 20:8	These were borne vnto Haraphah at Gath, and fell by the hand of Dauid: and by the hands of his seruants.
1 Chronicles 21:1	And Satan stoode vp against Israel, and prouoked Dauid to nomber Israel.
1 Chronicles 21:2	Therefore Dauid said to Ioab, and to the rulers of the people, Go, and nomber Israel from Beer-sheba euen to Dan, and bring it to me, that I may knowe the nomber of them.
1 Chronicles 21:3	And Ioab answered, The Lord increase his people an hundreth times so many as they be, O my lord the King: are they not all my lords seruats? wherefore doeth my lord require this thing? why should he be a cause of trespasse to Israel?
1 Chronicles 21:4	Neuerthelesse the Kings word preuailed against Ioab. And Ioab departed and went thorowe all Israel, and returned to Ierusalem.
1 Chronicles 21:5	And Ioab gaue the nomber and summe of the people vnto Dauid: and all Israel were eleuen hundreth thousande men that drewe sword: and Iudah was foure hundreth and seuentie thousande men that drewe sword.
1 Chronicles 21:6	But the Leuites and Beniamin counted he not among them: for the Kings worde was abominable to Ioab.
1 Chronicles 21:7	And God was displeased with this thing: therefore he smote Israel.
1 Chronicles 21:8	Then Dauid saide vnto God, I haue sinned greatly, because I haue done this thing: but now, I beseech thee, remooue the iniquitie of thy seruant: for I haue done very foolishly.
1 Chronicles 21:9	And the Lord spake vnto Gad Dauids Seer, saying,
1 Chronicles 21:10	Goe and tell Dauid, saying, Thus saith the Lord, I offer thee three thinges: choose thee one of them, that I may doe it vnto thee.
1 Chronicles 21:11	So Gad came to Dauid, and sayde vnto him, Thus saith the Lord, Take to thee
1 Chronicles 21:12	Either three yeeres famine, or three moneths to be destroyed before thine aduersaries, and the sworde of thine enemies to take thee, or els the sworde of the Lord and pestilence in the lande three dayes, that the Angel of the Lord may destroy throughout all the coastes of Israel: nowe therefore aduise thee, what word I shall bring againe to him that sent me.
1 Chronicles 21:13	And Dauid said vnto Gad, I am in a wonderfull strait. let me nowe fall into the hande of the Lord: for his mercies are exceeding great, and let me not fall into the hande of man.
1 Chronicles 21:14	So the Lord sent a pestilence in Israel, and there fell of Israel seuentie thousande men.
1 Chronicles 21:15	And God sent the Angel into Ierusalem to destroy it. And as he was destroying, the Lord behelde, and repented of the euill and sayde to the Angel that destroyed, It is nowe ynough, let thine hande cease. Then the Angel of the Lord stoode by the thresshing floore of Ornan the Iebusite.
1 Chronicles 21:16	And Dauid lift vp his eyes, and sawe the Angel of the Lord stande betweene the earth and the heauen with his sworde drawen in his hand, and stretched out towarde Ierusalem. Then Dauid and the Elders of Israel, which were clothed in sacke, fell vpon their faces.
1 Chronicles 21:17	And Dauid said vnto God, Is it not I that commanded to nomber the people? It is euen I that haue sinned and haue committed euil, but these sheepe what haue they done? O Lord my God, I beseech thee, let thine hande be on me and on my fathers house, and not on thy people for their destruction.
1 Chronicles 21:18	Then the Angel of the Lord commanded Gad to say to Dauid, that Dauid should goe vp, and set vp an altar vnto the Lord in the thresshing floore of Ornan the Iebusite.
1 Chronicles 21:19	So Dauid went vp according to the saying of Gad, which he had spoken in the Name of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 21:20	And Ornan turned about, and sawe the Angel, and his foure sonnes, that were with him, hid them selues, and Ornan thresshed wheat.
1 Chronicles 21:21	And as Dauid came to Ornan, Ornan looked and sawe Dauid, and went out of the thresshing floore, and bowed himselfe to Dauid with his face to the grounde.
1 Chronicles 21:22	And Dauid saide to Ornan, Giue me the place of thy thresshing floore, that I may builde an altar therein vnto the Lord: giue it me for sufficient money, that the plague may be stayed from the people.
1 Chronicles 21:23	Then Ornan saide vnto Dauid, Take it to thee, and let my lord the King do that which seemeth him good: loe, I giue thee bullockes for burnt offrings, and thresshing instruments for wood, and wheat for meate offring, I giue it all.
1 Chronicles 21:24	And King Dauid saide to Ornan, Not so: but I will bye it for sufficient money: for I wil not take that which is thine for the Lord, nor offer burnt offrings without cost.
1 Chronicles 21:25	So Dauid gaue to Ornan for that place sixe hundreth shekels of golde by weight.
1 Chronicles 21:26	And Dauid built there an altar vnto the Lord, and offred burnt offrings, and peace offrings, and called vpon the Lord, and he answered him by fire from heauen vpon the altar of burnt offring.
1 Chronicles 21:27	And when the Lord had spoken to the Angel, he put vp his sworde againe into his sheath.
1 Chronicles 21:28	At that time when Dauid sawe that the Lord had heard him in the thresshing floore of Ornan the Iebusite, then he sacrificed there.
1 Chronicles 21:29	(But the Tabernacle of the Lord which Moses had made in the wildernesse, and the altar of burnt offring were at that season in the hie place at Gibeon.
1 Chronicles 21:30	And Dauid could not go before it to aske counsel at God: for he was afraide of the sworde of the Angel of the Lord.)
1 Chronicles 22:1	And Dauid saide, This is the house of the Lord God, and this is the altar for the burnt offring of Israel.
1 Chronicles 22:2	And Dauid commanded to gather together the strangers that were in the lande of Israel, and he set masons to hewe and polish stones to builde the house of God.
1 Chronicles 22:3	Dauid also prepared much yron for the nayles of the doores and of the gates, and for the ioynings, and abundance of brasse passing weight,
1 Chronicles 22:4	And cedar trees without nomber: for the Zidonians and they of Tyrus brought much cedar wood to Dauid.
1 Chronicles 22:5	And Dauid saide, Salomon my sonne is yong and tender, and we must builde an house for the Lord, magnificall, excellent and of great fame and dignitie throughout all countreyes. I will therefore nowe prepare for him. So Dauid prepared very much before his death.
1 Chronicles 22:6	Then he called Salomon his sonne, and charged him to builde an house for the Lord God of Israel.
1 Chronicles 22:7	And Dauid said to Salomon, My sonne, I purposed with my selfe to builde an house to the Name of the Lord my God,
1 Chronicles 22:8	But the worde of the Lord came to me, saying, Thou hast shed much blood, and hast made great battels: thou shalt not builde an house vnto my Name: for thou hast shead much blood vpon the earth in my sight.
1 Chronicles 22:9	Beholde, a sonne is borne to thee, which shalbe a man of rest, for I will giue him rest from all his enemies rounde about: therefore his name is Salomon: and I will sende peace and quietnes vpon Israel in his dayes.
1 Chronicles 22:10	Hee shall builde an house for my Name, and he shalbe my sonne, and I will be his father, and I will establish the throne of his kingdome vpon Israel for euer.
1 Chronicles 22:11	Nowe therefore my sonne, the Lord shalbe with thee, and thou shalt prosper, and thou shalt builde an house to the Lord thy God, as he hath spoken of thee.
1 Chronicles 22:12	Onely the Lord giue thee wisedome and vnderstanding, and giue thee charge ouer Israel, euen to keepe the Lawe of the Lord thy God.
1 Chronicles 22:13	Then thou shalt prosper, if thou take heede to obserue the statutes and the iudgements which the Lord commanded Moses for Israel: be strong and of good courage: feare not, neither bee afraide.
1 Chronicles 22:14	For beholde, according to my pouertie haue I prepared for the house of the Lord an hundreth thousand talents of golde, and a thousand thousande talents of siluer, and of brasse and of yron passing weight: for there was abundance: I haue also prepared timber and stone, and thou mayest prouide more thereto.
1 Chronicles 22:15	Moreouer thou hast workmen with thee enough, hewers of stone, and workemen for timber, and all men expert in euery worke.
1 Chronicles 22:16	Of golde, of siluer, and of brasse, and of yron there is no nomber: Vp therefore, and be doing, and the Lord wilbe with thee.
1 Chronicles 22:17	Dauid also commanded all the princes of Israel to helpe Salomon his sonne, saying,
1 Chronicles 22:18	Is not the Lord your God with you, and hath giuen you rest on euerie side? for hee hath giuen the inhabitants of the land into mine hand, and the land is subdued before the Lord and before his people.
1 Chronicles 22:19	Nowe set your hearts and your soules to seeke the Lord your God, and arise, and builde the Sanctuarie of the Lord God to bring the Arke of the couenant of the Lord, and the holy vessels of God into the house built for the Name of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 23:1	So when Dauid was olde and full of dayes, he made Salomon his sonne King ouer Israel.
1 Chronicles 23:2	And hee gathered together all the princes of Israel with the Priestes and the Leuites.
1 Chronicles 23:3	And the Leuites were numbred from ye age of thirtie yeere and aboue, and their nomber according to their summe was eight and thirtie thousand men.
1 Chronicles 23:4	Of these foure and twentie thousande were set to aduance the worke of the house of the Lord, and sixe thousand were ouerseers and iudges.
1 Chronicles 23:5	And foure thousand were porters, and foure thousande praised the Lord with instruments which he made to praise the Lord.
1 Chronicles 23:6	So Dauid deuided offices vnto them, to wit, to the sonnes of Leui, to Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
1 Chronicles 23:7	Of the Gershonites were Laadan and Shimei.
1 Chronicles 23:8	The sonnes of Laadan, the chiefe was Iehiel, and Zetham and Ioel, three.
1 Chronicles 23:9	The Sonnes of Shimei, Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haram, three: these were the chiefe fathers of Laadan.
1 Chronicles 23:10	Also the sonnes of Shimei were Iahath, Zina, Ieush, and Beriah: these foure were ye sonnes of Shimei.
1 Chronicles 23:11	And Iahath was the chiefe, and Zizah the seconde, but Ieush and Beriah had not many sonnes: therfore they were in the families of their father, counted but as one.
1 Chronicles 23:12	The sonnes of Kohath were Amram, Izhar, Hebron aud Vzziel, foure.
1 Chronicles 23:13	The sonnes of Amram, Aaron and Moses: and Aaron was separated to sanctifie the most holy place, hee and his sonnes for euer to burne incense before the Lord, to minister to him, and to blesse in his Name for euer.
1 Chronicles 23:14	Moses also the man of God, and his children were named with the tribe of Leui.
1 Chronicles 23:15	The sonnes of Moses were Gershom, and Eliezer,
1 Chronicles 23:16	Of the sonnes of Gershom was Shebuel the chiefe.
1 Chronicles 23:17	And the sonne of Eliezer was Rehabiah the chiefe: for Eliezer had none other sonnes: but the sonnes of Rehabiah were very many.
1 Chronicles 23:18	The sone of Izhar was Shelomith ye chiefe.
1 Chronicles 23:19	The sonnes of Hebron were Ieriah the first, Amariah the second, Iahaziel the third, and Iekamiam the fourth.
1 Chronicles 23:20	The sones of Vzziel were Michah the first, and Isshiah the second.
1 Chronicles 23:21	The sonnes of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The sonnes of Mahli, Eleazar and Kish.
1 Chronicles 23:22	And Eleazar dyed, and had no sonnes, but daughters, and their brethren the sonnes of Kish tooke them.
1 Chronicles 23:23	The sonnes of Mushi were Mahli, and Eder, and Ierimoth, three.
1 Chronicles 23:24	These were the sonnes of Leui according to the house of their fathers, euen the chiefe fathers according to their offices, according to the nomber of names and their summe that did the worke for the seruice of the house of the Lord from the age of twentie yeeres and aboue.
1 Chronicles 23:25	For Dauid sayde, The Lord God of Israel hath giuen rest vnto his people, that they may dwell in Ierusalem for euer.
1 Chronicles 23:26	And also the Leuites shall no more beare the Tabernacle and al the vessels for the seruice thereof.
1 Chronicles 23:27	Therefore according to the last wordes of Dauid, the Leuites were nombred from twentie yeere and aboue,
1 Chronicles 23:28	And their office was vnder the hand of the sonnes of Aaron, for the seruice of the house of the Lord in the courtes, and chambers, and in the purifiyng of all holy thinges, and in the worke of the seruice of the house of God,
1 Chronicles 23:29	Both for the shewbread, and for the fine floure, for the meate offring, and for the vnleauened cakes, and for the fryed things, and for that which was rosted, and for all measures and cise,
1 Chronicles 23:30	And for to stand euery morning, to giue thanks and praise to the Lord, and likewise at euen,
1 Chronicles 23:31	And to offer all burnt offrings vnto the Lord, in the Sabbaths, in the moneths, and at the appointed times, according to the nomber and according to their custome continually before the Lord,
1 Chronicles 23:32	And that they should keepe the charge of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the charge of ye holy place, and the charge of ye sonnes of Aaron their brethren in the seruice of ye house of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 24:1	These are also the diuisions of the sonnes of Aaron: The sonnes of Aaron were Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 24:2	But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and had no children: therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the Priestes office.
1 Chronicles 24:3	And Dauid distributed them, euen Zadok of the sonnes of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sonnes of Ithamar according to their offices in their ministration.
1 Chronicles 24:4	And there were found more of the sonnes of Eleazar by the number of men, then of the sonnes of Ithamar. and they deuided them, to wit, among the sonnes of Eleazar, sixteene heads, according to the houshould of their fathers, and among ye sonnes of Ithamar, according to the housholde of their fathers, eight.
1 Chronicles 24:5	Thus they distributed them by lot the one from the other, and so the rulers of the Sanctuarie and the rulers of the house of God were of the sonnes of Eleazar and of the sonnes of Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 24:6	And Shemaiah the sonne of Nethaneel the scribe of the Leuites, wrote them before ye King and the princes, and Zadok the Priest, and Ahimelech the sonne of Abiathar, and before ye chiefe fathers of the Priests and of the Leuites, one familie being reserued for Eleazar, and another reserued for Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 24:7	And the first lot fell to Iehoiarib, and the second to Iedaiah,
1 Chronicles 24:8	The third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
1 Chronicles 24:9	The fifth to Malchiiah, the sixt to Miiamin,
1 Chronicles 24:10	The seuenth to Hakkoz, the eight to Abiiah,
1 Chronicles 24:11	The ninth to Ieshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
1 Chronicles 24:12	The eleuenth to Eliashib, the twelft to Iakim,
1 Chronicles 24:13	The thirteenth to Huppa, the fouretenth to Ieshebeab,
1 Chronicles 24:14	The fiftenth to Bilgah, the sixtenth to Immer,
1 Chronicles 24:15	The seuententh to Hezir, the eightenth to Happizzer,
1 Chronicles 24:16	The ninetenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Iehezekel,
1 Chronicles 24:17	The one and twentie to Iachin, the two and twentie to Gamul,
1 Chronicles 24:18	The three and twentie to Deliah, the foure and twentie to Maaziah.
1 Chronicles 24:19	These were their orders according to their offices, when they entred into the house of the Lord according to their custome vnder the hande of Aaron their father, as the Lord God of Israel had commanded him.
1 Chronicles 24:20	And of the sonnes of Leui that remained of the sonnes of Amram, was Shubael, of the sonnes of Shubael, Iedeiah,
1 Chronicles 24:21	Of Rehabiah. euen of the sonnes of Rehabiah, the first Isshiiah,
1 Chronicles 24:22	Of Izhari, Shelomoth, of the sonnes of Shelomoth, Iahath,
1 Chronicles 24:23	And his sonnes Ieriah the first, Amariah the second, Iahaziel the thirde, and Iekameam the fourth,
1 Chronicles 24:24	The sonne of Vzziel was Michah, ye sonne of Michah was Shamir,
1 Chronicles 24:25	The brother of Michah was Isshiiah, the sonne of Isshiiah, Zechariah,
1 Chronicles 24:26	The sonnes of Merari, were Mahli and Mushi, the sonne of Iaaziiah was Beno,
1 Chronicles 24:27	The sonnes of Merari of Iahaziah were Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur and Ibri.
1 Chronicles 24:28	Of Mahli came Eleazar, which had no sonnes.
1 Chronicles 24:29	Of Kish. the sonne of Kish was Ierahmeel,
1 Chronicles 24:30	And the sonnes of Mushi were Mahli, and Eder, and Ierimoth: these were sonnes of the Leuites after the houshold of their fathers.
1 Chronicles 24:31	And these also cast lots with their brethren the sonnes of Aaron before King Dauid, and Zadok and Ahimelech and the chiefe fathers of the Priests, and of the Leuites, euen the chiefe of the families against their yonger brethren.
1 Chronicles 25:1	So Dauid and the captaines of the armie separated for the ministerie the sonnes of Asaph, and Heman, and Ieduthun, who should sing prophesies with harpes, with violes, and with cymbales, and their nomber was euen of the men for the office of their ministerie, to wit,
1 Chronicles 25:2	Of the sonnes of Asaph, Zaccur, and Ioseph, and Nethaniah, and Asharelah the sonnes of Asaph were vnder the hand of Asaph, which sang prophesies by the commission of the King.
1 Chronicles 25:3	Of Ieduthun, the sonnes of Ieduthun, Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Ieshaiah, Ashabiah and Mattithiah, six, vnder the hands of their father: Ieduthun sang prophecies with an harpe, for to giue thankes and to praise the Lord.
1 Chronicles 25:4	Of Heman, the sonnes of Heman, Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Vzziel, Shebuel, and Ierimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer, Ioshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth.
1 Chronicles 25:5	All these were the sonnes of Heman, the Kings Seer in the wordes of God to lift vp the horne: and God gaue to Heman fourtene sonnes and three daughters.
1 Chronicles 25:6	All these were vnder the hande of their father, singing in the house of the Lord with cymbales, violes and harpes, for the seruice of the house of God, and Asaph, and Ieduthun, and Heman were at the Kings commandement.
1 Chronicles 25:7	So was their nomber with their brethre that were instruct in ye songs of the Lord, euen of al that were cunning, two hundreth foure score and eight.
1 Chronicles 25:8	And they cast lottes, charge against charge, aswel small as great, the cunning man as the scholer.
1 Chronicles 25:9	And the first lot fell to Ioseph which was of Asaph, the second, to Gedaliah, who with his brethren and his sonnes were twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:10	The third, to Zaccur, he, his sonnes and his brethren were twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:11	The fourth, to Izri, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:12	The fift, to Nethaniah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:13	The sixt, to Bukkiah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:14	The seuenth, to Iesharelah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:15	The eight, to Ieshaiah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:16	The ninth, to Mattaniah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:17	The tenth, to Shimei, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:18	The eleuenth, to Azareel, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:19	The twelft, to Ashabiah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:20	The thirteenth, to Shubael, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:21	The fourtenth, to Mattithiah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:22	The fifteenth, to Ierimoth, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:23	The sixteenth, to Hananiah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:24	The seuenteenth, to Ioshbekashah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:25	The eighteenth, to Hanani, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:26	The ninteenth, to Mallothi, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:27	The twentieth, to Eliathah, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:28	The one and twentieth, to Hothir, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:29	The two and twentieth, to Giddalti, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:30	The three and twentieth, to Mahazioth, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 25:31	The foure and twentieth, to Romamti-ezer, he, his sonnes and his brethren twelue.
1 Chronicles 26:1	Concerning the diuisions of the porters, of the Korhites, Meshelemiah the sonne of Kore of the sonnes of Asaph.
1 Chronicles 26:2	And the sonnes of Meshelemiah, Zechariah the eldest, Iediael the seconde, Zebadiah the third, Iathniel the fourth,
1 Chronicles 26:3	Elam the fift, Ichohanan the sixt, and Eliehoenai the seuenth.
1 Chronicles 26:4	And the sonnes of Obed Edom, Shemaiah the eldest, Iehozabad the second, Ioah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethaneel the fift,
1 Chronicles 26:5	Ammiel the sixt, Issachar the seuenth, Peulthai the eight: for God had blessed him.
1 Chronicles 26:6	And to Shemaiah his sonne, were sonnes borne, that ruled in the house of their father, for they were men of might.
1 Chronicles 26:7	The sonnes of Shemaiah were Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad and his brethren, strong men: Elihu also, and Semachiah.
1 Chronicles 26:8	All these were of the sonnes of Obed Edom, they and their sonnes and their brethren mightie and strong to serue, euen three score and two of Obed Edom.
1 Chronicles 26:9	And of Meshelemiah sonnes and brethren, eighteene mightie men.
1 Chronicles 26:10	And of Hosah of the sonnes of Merari, the sonnes were Shuri the chiefe, and (though he was not the eldest, yet his father made him the chiefe)
1 Chronicles 26:11	Helkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, and Zechariah the fourth: all the sonnes and the brethren of Hosa were thirteene.
1 Chronicles 26:12	Of these were the diuisions of the porters of the chiefe men, hauing the charge against their brethren, to serue in the house of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 26:13	And they cast lottes both small and great for the house of their fathers, for euery gate.
1 Chronicles 26:14	And the lot on the East side fel to Shelemiah: then they cast lottes for Zechariah his sonne a wise couseller, and his lot came out Northward:
1 Chronicles 26:15	To Obed Edom Southwarde, and to his sonnes the house of Asuppim:
1 Chronicles 26:16	To Shuppim and to Hosah Westwarde with the gate of Shallecheth by the paued streete that goeth vpward, warde ouer against warde.
1 Chronicles 26:17	Eastward were sixe Leuites, and Northwarde foure a day, and Southward foure a day, and toward Asuppim two and two.
1 Chronicles 26:18	In Parbar towarde the West were foure by the paued streete, and two in Parbar.
1 Chronicles 26:19	These are the diuisions of the porters of the sonnes of Kore, and of the sonnes of Merari.
1 Chronicles 26:20	And of the Leuites. Ahiiah was ouer the treasures of the house of God, and ouer the treasures of the dedicate things.
1 Chronicles 26:21	Of the sonnes of Laadan the sonnes of the Gershunnites descending of Laadan, the chiefe fathers of Laadan were Gershunni and Iehieli.
1 Chronicles 26:22	The sonnes of Iehieli were Zethan and Ioel his brother, appoynted ouer the treasures of the house of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 26:23	Of the Amramites, of the Izharites, of the Hebronites and of the Ozielites.
1 Chronicles 26:24	And Shebuel the sonne of Gershom, the sonne of Moses, a ruler ouer the treasures.
1 Chronicles 26:25	And of his brethren which came of Eliezer, was Rehabiah his sonne, and Ieshaiah his sonne, and Ioram his sonne, and Zichri his sonne, and Shelomith his sonne.
1 Chronicles 26:26	Which Shelomith and his brethren were ouer al the treasures of the dedicate things, which Dauid the King, and the chiefe fathers, the captaines ouer thousands, and hundreths, and the captaines of the armie had dedicated.
1 Chronicles 26:27	(For of the battels and of the spoyles they did dedicate to maintaine the house of the Lord)
1 Chronicles 26:28	And al that Samuel the Seer had dedicate and Saul the sonne of Kish and Abner the sonne of Ner, and Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah, and whosoeuer had dedicate any thing, it was vnder the hand of Shelomith, and his brethren.
1 Chronicles 26:29	Of the Izharites was Chenaniah and his sonnes, for the busines without ouer Israel, for officers and for Iudges.
1 Chronicles 26:30	Of the Hebronites, Ashabiah and his brethren, men of actiuitie, a thousande, and seuen hundreth were officers for Israel beyonde Iorden Westward, in all the busines of the Lord, and for the seruice of the King.
1 Chronicles 26:31	Among the Hebronites was Iediiah the chiefest, euen the Hebronites by his generations according to the families. And in the fourtieth yere of the reigne of Dauid they were sought for: and there were founde among them men of actiuitie at Iazer in Gilead.
1 Chronicles 26:32	And his brethren men of actiuitie, two thousand and seuen hundreth chiefe fathers, whom King Dauid made rulers ouer the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the halfe tribe of Manasseh, for euery matter perteining to God, and for the Kings busines.
1 Chronicles 27:1	The children of Israel also after their nomber, euen the chiefe fathers and captaines of thousandes and of hundreths, and their officers that serued the King by diuers courses, which came and in went out, moneth by moneth throughout al the moneths of the yeere: in euery course were foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:2	Ouer the first course for the first moneth was Iashobeam the sonne of Zabdiel: and in his course were foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:3	Of the sonnes of Perez was the chiefe ouer all the princes of the armies for the first moneth.
1 Chronicles 27:4	And ouer the course of the second moneth was Dodai, an Ahohite, and this was his course, and Mikloth was a captaine, and in his course were foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:5	The captaine of the thirde hoste for the third moneth was Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada the chiefe Priest: and in his course were foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:6	This Benaiah was mightie among thirtie and aboue the thirtie, and in his course was Amizabad his sonne.
1 Chronicles 27:7	The fourth for the fourth moneth was Asahel the brother of Ioab, and Zebadiah his sonne after him: and in his course were foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:8	The fift for ye fift moneth was prince Shamhuth the Izrahite: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:9	The sixt for the sixt moneth was Ira the sonne of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:10	The seuenth for the seuenth moneth was Helez the Pelonite, of the sonnes of Ephraim: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:11	The eight for the eight moneth was Sibbecai the Hushathite of the Zarhites: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:12	The ninth for the ninth moneth was Abiezer the Anethothite of the sonnes of Iemini: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:13	The tenth for the tenth moneth was Maharai, the Netophathite of the Zarhites: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:14	The eleueth for the eleuenth moneth was Benaiah the Pirathonite of the sonnes of Ephraim: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:15	The twelft for the twelft moneth was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel: and in his course foure and twentie thousand.
1 Chronicles 27:16	Moreouer the rulers ouer the tribes of Israel were these: ouer the Reubenites was ruler, Eliezer the sonne of Zichri: ouer the Shimeonites, Shephatiah the sonne of Maachah:
1 Chronicles 27:17	Ouer the Leuites, Hashabiah the sonne of Remuel: ouer them of Aharon, and Zadok:
1 Chronicles 27:18	Ouer Iudah, Elihu of the brethren of Dauid: ouer Issachar, Omri the sonne of Michael:
1 Chronicles 27:19	Ouer Zebulun, Ishmaiah the sonne of Obadiah: ouer Naphtali, Ierimoth the sonne of Azriel:
1 Chronicles 27:20	Ouer the sonnes of Ephraim, Hoshea the sonne of Azazziah: ouer the halfe tribe of Manasseh, Ioel the sonne of Pedaiah:
1 Chronicles 27:21	Ouer the other halfe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the sonne of Zechariah: ouer Beniamin, Iaasiel the sonne of Abner:
1 Chronicles 27:22	Ouer Dan, Azariel the sonne of Ieroham. these are the princes of the tribes of Israel.
1 Chronicles 27:23	But Dauid tooke not the nober of them from twentie yeere olde and vnder, because the Lord had sayde that he would increase Israel like vnto the starres of the heauens.
1 Chronicles 27:24	And Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah beganne to nomber: but hee finished it not, because there came wrath for it against Israel, neither was the nomber put into the Chronicles of King Dauid.
1 Chronicles 27:25	And ouer the Kings treasures was Azmaueth the sonne of Adiel: and ouer the treasures in the fieldes, in the cities and in the villages and in the towers was Iehonathan the sonne of Vzziah:
1 Chronicles 27:26	And ouer the workemen in the fielde that tilled the ground, was Ezri the sonne of Chelub:
1 Chronicles 27:27	And ouer them that dressed the vines, was Shimei the Ramathite: and ouer that which apperteined to the vines, and ouer the store of the wine was Sabdi the Shiphmite:
1 Chronicles 27:28	And ouer the oliue trees and mulberie trees that were in the valleys, was Baal Hanan the Gederite: and ouer the store of the oyle was Ioash:
1 Chronicles 27:29	And ouer the oxen that fed in Sharon, was Shetrai the Sharonite: and ouer the oxen in the valleyes was Shaphat the sonne of Adlai:
1 Chronicles 27:30	And ouer the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite: and ouer the asses was Iehdeiah the Meronothite:
1 Chronicles 27:31	And ouer the sheepe was Iaziz the Hagerite: all these were the rulers of the substance that was King Dauids.
1 Chronicles 27:32	And Iehonathan Dauids vncle a man of counsell and vnderstanding (for he was a scribe) and Iehiel the sonne of Hachmoni were with the Kings sonnes.
1 Chronicles 27:33	And Ahitophel was the Kings counseller, and Hushai the Archite the Kings friend.
1 Chronicles 27:34	And after Ahitophel was Iehoiada the sonne of Benaiah and Abiathar: and captaine of the Kings armie was Ioab.
1 Chronicles 28:1	Nowe Dauid assembled all the princes of Israel: the princes of the tribes, and the captaines of the bandes that serued the King, and the captaines of thousands and the captaines of hundreths, and the rulers of all the substance and possession of the King, and of his sonnes, with the eunuches, and the mightie, and all the men of power, vnto Ierusalem.
1 Chronicles 28:2	And King Dauid stoode vp vpon his feete; and saide, Heare ye me, my brethren and my people: I purposed to haue buylt an house of rest for the Arke of the couenant of the Lord, and for a footestoole of our God, and haue made ready for the building,
1 Chronicles 28:3	But God sayde vnto me, Thou shalt not buylde an house for my Name, because thou hast bene a man of warre, and hast shed blood.
1 Chronicles 28:4	Yet as the Lord God of Israel chose me before all the house of my father, to be King ouer Israel for euer (for in Iudah woulde he chuse a prince, and of the house of Iudah is the house of my father, and among the sonnes of my father he delited in me to make me King ouer all Israel)
1 Chronicles 28:5	So of all my sonnes (for the Lord hath giuen me many sonnes) he hath euen chosen Salomon my sonne to sit vpon the throne of the kingdome of the Lord ouer Israel.
1 Chronicles 28:6	And he sayd vnto me, Salomon thy sonne, he shall build mine house and my courtes: for I haue chosen him to be my sonne, and I will be his father.
1 Chronicles 28:7	I will stablish therefore his kingdome for euer, if he endeuour himselfe to do my commandements, and my iudgements, as this day.
1 Chronicles 28:8	Now therefore in the sight of all Israel the Congregation of the Lord, and in the audience of our God, keepe and seeke for all the commandements of the Lord your God, that ye may possesse this good lande, and leaue it for an inheritance for your children after you for euer.
1 Chronicles 28:9	And thou, Salomon my sonne, know thou the God of thy father, and serue him with a perfit heart, and with a willing minde: For the Lord searcheth all hearts, and vnderstandeth all the imaginations of thoughts: if thou seeke him, he will be found of thee, but if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off for euer.
1 Chronicles 28:10	Take heede now, for the Lord hath chosen thee to buylde the house of the Sanctuarie: be strong therefore, and doe it.
1 Chronicles 28:11	Then Dauid gaue to Salomon his sonne the paterne of the porch and of the houses thereof, and of the closets thereof, and of the galleries thereof, and of the chambers thereof that are within, and of the house of the mercieseate,
1 Chronicles 28:12	And the paterne of all that he had in his minde for the courtes of the house of the Lord, and for all the chambers round about, for the treasures of the house of God, and for the treasures of the dedicate things,
1 Chronicles 28:13	And for the courses of the Priestes, and of the Leuites, and for all the woorke for the seruice of the house of the Lord, and for all the vessels of the ministerie of the house of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 28:14	He gaue of golde by weight, for the vessels of gold, for all the vessels of all maner of seruice, and all the vessels of siluer by weight, for all maner vessels of all maner of seruice.
1 Chronicles 28:15	The weight also of golde for the candlestickes, and gold for their lampes, with the weight for euery candlesticke, and for the lampes thereof, and for the candlestickes of siluer by the weight of the candlesticke, and the lampes thereof, according to the vse of euery candlesticke,
1 Chronicles 28:16	And the weight of the gold for the tables of shewbread, for euery table, and siluer for the tables of siluer,
1 Chronicles 28:17	And pure golde for the fleshhookes, and the bowles, and plates, and for basens, golde in weight for euery basen, and for siluer basens, by weight for euery basen,
1 Chronicles 28:18	And for the altar of incense, pure golde by weight, and golde for the paterne of the charet of the Cherubs that spread themselues, and couered the Arke of the couenant of the Lord:
1 Chronicles 28:19	All, said he, by writing sent to me by the hand of the Lord, which made me vnderstand all the workemanship of the paterne.
1 Chronicles 28:20	And Dauid said to Salomon his sonne, Be strong, and of a valiant courage and doe it: feare not, nor be afraide: for the Lord God, euen my God is with thee: he will not leaue thee nor forsake thee till thou hast finished all the worke for the seruice of the house of the Lord.
1 Chronicles 28:21	Beholde also, the companies of the Priests and the Leuites for all the seruice of the house of God, euen they shall be with thee for the whole worke, with euery free heart that is skilfull in any maner of seruice. The princes also and all the people will be wholy at thy commandement.
1 Chronicles 29:1	Moreouer Dauid the King sayde vnto all the Congregation, God hath chosen Salomon mine onely sonne yong and tender, and the worke is great: for this house is not for man, but for the Lord God.
1 Chronicles 29:2	Now I haue prepared with all my power for the house of my God, golde for vessels of golde, and siluer for them of siluer, and brasse for things of brasse, yron for things of yron, and wood for things of wood, and onix stones, and stones to be set, and carbuncle stones and of diuers colours, and all precious stones, and marble stones in aboundance.
1 Chronicles 29:3	Moreouer, because I haue delite in the house of my God, I haue of mine owne golde and siluer, which I haue giuen to the house of my God, beside all that I haue prepared for the house of the Sanctuarie,
1 Chronicles 29:4	Euen three thousand talents of gold of the golde of Ophir, and seuen thousand talents of fined siluer to ouerlay the walles of the houses.
1 Chronicles 29:5	The golde for the things of golde, and the siluer for things of siluer, and for all the worke by the handes of artificers: and who is willing to fill his hand to day vnto the Lord?
1 Chronicles 29:6	So the princes of the families, and the princes of the tribes of Israel, and the captaines of thousands and of hundreths, with the rulers of the Kings worke, offred willingly,
1 Chronicles 29:7	And they gaue for the seruice of the house of God fiue thousande talents of golde, and ten thousand pieces, and ten thousand talents of siluer, and eighteene thousand talents of brasse, and one hundreth thousand talents of yron.
1 Chronicles 29:8	And they with whom precious stones were found, gaue them to the treasure of ye house of the Lord, by the hand of Iehiel the Gershunnite.
1 Chronicles 29:9	And the people reioyced when they offred willingly: for they offred willingly vnto ye Lord, with a perfite heart. And Dauid the King also reioyced with great ioy.
1 Chronicles 29:10	Therefore Dauid blessed the Lord before all the Congregation, and Dauid sayde, Blessed be thou, O Lord God, of Israel our father, for euer and euer.
1 Chronicles 29:11	Thine, O Lord, is greatnesse and power, and glory, and victorie and praise: for all that is in heauen and in earth is thine: thine is the kingdome, O Lord, and thou excellest as head ouer all.
1 Chronicles 29:12	Both riches and honour come of thee, and thou reignest ouer all, and in thine hand is power and strength, and in thine hande it is to make great, and to giue strength vnto all.
1 Chronicles 29:13	Now therefore our God, we thanke thee, and prayse thy glorious Name.
1 Chronicles 29:14	But who am I, and what is my people, that we shoulde be able to offer willingly after this sort? for all things come of thee: and of thine owne hand we haue giuen thee.
1 Chronicles 29:15	For we are stragers before thee, and soiourners, like all our fathers: our dayes are like ye shadowe vpon the earth, and there is none abiding.
1 Chronicles 29:16	O Lord our God, all this abundance that we haue prepared to buylde thee an house for thine holy Name, is of thine hand and all is thine.
1 Chronicles 29:17	I knowe also, my God, that thou tryest the heart, and hast pleasure in righteousnesse: I haue offred willingly in the vprightnesse of mine heart all these things: now also haue I seene thy people which are found here, to offer vnto thee willingly with ioy.
1 Chronicles 29:18	O Lord God of Abraham, Izhak and Israel our fathers, keepe this for euer in the purpose, and the thoughts of the heart of thy people, and prepare their hearts vnto thee.
1 Chronicles 29:19	And giue vnto Salomon my sonne a perfit heart to keepe thy commandements, thy testimonies, and thy statutes, and to doe all things, and to builde the house which I haue prepared.
1 Chronicles 29:20	And Dauid said to all the Congregation, Now blesse the Lord your God. And all the Congregation blessed the Lord God of their fathers, and bowed downe their heads, and worshipped the Lord and the King.
1 Chronicles 29:21	And they offred sacrifices vnto the Lord, and on the morowe after that day, they offered burnt offrings vnto the Lord, euen a thousande yong bullocks, a thousand rammes and a thousand sheepe, with their drinke offrings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel.
1 Chronicles 29:22	And they did eate and drinke before the Lord the same day with great ioy, and they made Salomon the sonne of Dauid King the seconde time, and anoynted him prince before the Lord, and Zadok for the hie Priest.
1 Chronicles 29:23	So Salomon sate on the throne of the Lord, as King in steade of Dauid his father, and prospered: and all Israel obeyed him.
1 Chronicles 29:24	And all the princes and men of power, and all the sonnes of King Dauid submitted them selues vnder King Salomon.
1 Chronicles 29:25	And the Lord magnified Salomon in dignitie, in the sight of all Israel, and gaue him so glorious a kingdome, as no King had before him in Israel.
1 Chronicles 29:26	Thus Dauid the sonne of Ishai reigned ouer all Israel.
1 Chronicles 29:27	And the space that he reigned ouer Israel, was fourtie yeere: seuen yeere reigned he in Hebron, and three and thirtie yeere reigned he in Ierusalem:
1 Chronicles 29:28	And he dyed in a good age, full of dayes, riches and honour, and Salomon his sonne reigned in his steade.
1 Chronicles 29:29	Concerning the actes of Dauid the King first and last, behold, they are written in the booke of Samuel the Seer, and in the booke of Nathan the Prophet, and in the booke of Gad the Seer,
1 Chronicles 29:30	With all his reigne and his power, and times that went ouer him, and ouer Israel and ouer all the kingdomes of the earth.

===== BOOK: 1 Corinthians =====
1 Corinthians 1:1	Paul called to be an Apostle of Iesus Christ, through the will of God, and our brother Sosthenes,
1 Corinthians 1:2	Vnto the Church of God, which is at Corinthus, to them that are sanctified in Christ Iesus, Saintes by calling, with all that call on the Name of our Lord Iesus Christ in euery place, both their Lord, and ours:
1 Corinthians 1:3	Grace be with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 1:4	I thanke my God alwayes on your behalfe for the grace of God, which is giuen you in Iesus Christ,
1 Corinthians 1:5	That in all things ye are made rich in him, in all kinde of speach, and in all knowledge:
1 Corinthians 1:6	As the testimonie of Iesus Christ hath bene confirmed in you:
1 Corinthians 1:7	So that ye are not destitute of any gift: wayting for the appearing of our Lord Iesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 1:8	Who shall also confirme you vnto the ende, that ye may be blamelesse, in the day of our Lord Iesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 1:9	God is faithfull, by whom ye are called vnto the fellowship of his Sonne Iesus Christ our Lord.
1 Corinthians 1:10	Nowe I beseeche you, brethren, by the Name of our Lord Iesus Christ, that ye all speake one thing, and that there be no dissensions among you: but be ye knit together in one mind, and in one iudgement.
1 Corinthians 1:11	For it hath bene declared vnto me, my brethren, of you by them that are of the house of Cloe, that there are contentions among you.
1 Corinthians 1:12	Nowe this I say, that euery one of you saith, I am Pauls, and I am Apollos, and I am Cephas, and I am Christs.
1 Corinthians 1:13	Is Christ deuided? was Paul crucified for you? either were ye baptized into the name of Paul?
1 Corinthians 1:14	I thanke God, that I baptized none of you, but Crispus, and Gaius,
1 Corinthians 1:15	Lest any should say, that I had baptized into mine owne name.
1 Corinthians 1:16	I baptized also the houshold of Stephanas: furthermore knowe I not, whether I baptized any other.
1 Corinthians 1:17	For CHRIST sent me not to baptize, but to preache the Gospel, not with wisdome of wordes, lest the crosse of Christ should be made of none effect.
1 Corinthians 1:18	For that preaching of the crosse is to them that perish, foolishnesse: but vnto vs, which are saued, it is the power of God.
1 Corinthians 1:19	For it is written, I will destroy the wisedome of the wise, and will cast away the vnderstanding of the prudent.
1 Corinthians 1:20	Where is the wise? where is the Scribe? where is the disputer of this worlde? hath not God made the wisedome of this worlde foolishnesse?
1 Corinthians 1:21	For seeing the worlde by wisedome knewe not God in the wisedome of GOD, it pleased God by the foolishnesse of preaching to saue them that beleeue:
1 Corinthians 1:22	Seeing also that the Iewes require a signe, and the Grecians seeke after wisdome.
1 Corinthians 1:23	But wee preach Christ crucified: vnto the Iewes, euen a stumbling blocke, and vnto the Grecians, foolishnesse:
1 Corinthians 1:24	But vnto them which are called, both of the Iewes and Grecians, we preach Christ, the power of God, and the wisedome of God.
1 Corinthians 1:25	For the foolishnesse of God is wiser then men, and the weakenesse of God is stronger then men.
1 Corinthians 1:26	For brethren, you see your calling, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called.
1 Corinthians 1:27	But God hath chosen the foolish thinges of the world to confound the wise, and God hath chosen the weake thinges of the worlde, to confound the mightie things,
1 Corinthians 1:28	And vile things of the worlde and thinges which are despised, hath God chosen, and thinges which are not, to bring to nought thinges that are,
1 Corinthians 1:29	That no flesh shoulde reioyce in his presence.
1 Corinthians 1:30	But ye are of him in Christ Iesus, who of God is made vnto vs wisedome and righteousnesse, and sanctification, and redemption,
1 Corinthians 1:31	That, according as it is written, Hee that reioyceth, let him reioyce in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 2:1	And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellencie of woordes, or of wisedome, shewing vnto you the testimonie of God.
1 Corinthians 2:2	For I esteemed not to knowe any thing among you, saue Iesus Christ, and him crucified.
1 Corinthians 2:3	And I was among you in weakenesse, and in feare, and in much trembling.
1 Corinthians 2:4	Neither stoode my woorde, and my preaching in the entising speach of mans wisdom, but in plaine euidence of the Spirite and of power,
1 Corinthians 2:5	That your faith should not be in the wisdome of men, but in the power of God.
1 Corinthians 2:6	And we speake wisedome among them that are perfect: not the wisedome of this world, neither of the princes of this world, which come to nought.
1 Corinthians 2:7	But we speake the wisedome of God in a mysterie, euen the hid wisedom, which God had determined before the world, vnto our glory.
1 Corinthians 2:8	Which none of the princes of this world hath knowen: for had they knowen it, they would not haue crucified the Lord of glory.
1 Corinthians 2:9	But as it is written, The thinges which eye hath not seene, neither eare hath heard, neither came into mans heart, are, which God hath prepared for them that loue him.
1 Corinthians 2:10	But God hath reueiled them vnto vs by his Spirit: for the spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deepe things of God.
1 Corinthians 2:11	For what man knoweth the things of a man, saue the spirite of a man, which is in him? euen so the things of God knoweth no man, but the spirit of God.
1 Corinthians 2:12	Nowe we haue receiued not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit, which is of God, that we might knowe the thinges that are giuen to vs of God.
1 Corinthians 2:13	Which things also we speake, not in the woordes which mans wisedome teacheth, but which the holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spirituall things with spirituall things.
1 Corinthians 2:14	But the naturall man perceiueth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishnesse vnto him: neither can hee knowe them, because they are spiritually discerned.
1 Corinthians 2:15	But hee that is spirituall, discerneth all things: yet he himselfe is iudged of no man.
1 Corinthians 2:16	For who hath knowen the minde of the Lord, that hee might instruct him? But we haue the minde of Christ.
1 Corinthians 3:1	And I could not speake vnto you, brethren, as vnto spirituall men, but as vnto carnall, euen as vnto babes in Christ.
1 Corinthians 3:2	I gaue you milke to drinke, and not meat: for yee were not yet able to beare it, neither yet nowe are yee able.
1 Corinthians 3:3	For yee are yet carnall: for whereas there is among you enuying, and strife, and diuisions, are ye not carnall, and walke as men?
1 Corinthians 3:4	For when one sayeth, I am Pauls, and another, I am Apollos, are yee not carnall?
1 Corinthians 3:5	Who is Paul then? and who is Apollos, but the ministers by whome yee beleeued, and as the Lord gaue to euery man?
1 Corinthians 3:6	I haue planted, Apollos watred, but God gaue the increase.
1 Corinthians 3:7	So then, neither is hee that planteth any thing, neither hee that watreth, but God that giueth the increase.
1 Corinthians 3:8	And he that planteth, and he that watreth, are one, and euery man shall receiue his wages, according to his labour.
1 Corinthians 3:9	For we together are Gods labourers: yee are Gods husbandrie, and Gods building.
1 Corinthians 3:10	According to the grace of God giuen to mee, as a skilfull master builder, I haue laide the foundation, and another buildeth thereon: but let euery man take heede how he buildeth vpon it.
1 Corinthians 3:11	For other foundation can no man laie, then that which is laied, which is Iesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 3:12	And if any man builde on this foundation, golde, siluer, precious stones, timber, haye, or stubble,
1 Corinthians 3:13	Euery mans worke shalbe made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shalbe reueiled by the fire: and the fire shall trie euery mans worke of what sort it is.
1 Corinthians 3:14	If any mans worke, that he hath built vpon, abide, he shall receiue wages.
1 Corinthians 3:15	If any mans worke burne, he shall lose, but he shalbe saued himselfe: neuerthelesse yet as it were by the fire.
1 Corinthians 3:16	Knowe ye not that ye are the Temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?
1 Corinthians 3:17	If any man destroy the Temple of God, him shall God destroy: for the Temple of God is holy, which ye are.
1 Corinthians 3:18	Let no man deceiue himselfe: If any man among you seeme to be wise in this world, let him be a foole, that he may be wise.
1 Corinthians 3:19	For the wisdome of this worlde is foolishnesse with God: for it is written, He catcheth the wise in their owne craftinesse.
1 Corinthians 3:20	And againe, The Lord knoweth that the thoughtes of the wise be vaine.
1 Corinthians 3:21	Therefore let no man reioyce in men: for all things are yours.
1 Corinthians 3:22	Whether it be Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death: whether they be things present, or thinges to come, euen all are yours,
1 Corinthians 3:23	And ye Christes, and Christ Gods.
1 Corinthians 4:1	Let a man so thinke of vs, as of the ministers of Christ, and disposers of the secrets of God:
1 Corinthians 4:2	And as for the rest, it is required of the disposers, that euery man be found faithfull.
1 Corinthians 4:3	As touching me, I passe very litle to be iudged of you, or of mans iudgement: no, I iudge not mine owne selfe.
1 Corinthians 4:4	For I know nothing by my selfe, yet am I not thereby iustified: but he that iudgeth me, is the Lord.
1 Corinthians 4:5	Therefore iudge nothing before the time, vntill the Lord come, who will lighten things that are hid in darkenesse, and make the counsels of the hearts manifest: and then shall euery man haue praise of God.
1 Corinthians 4:6	Nowe these things, brethren, I haue figuratiuely applied vnto mine owne selfe and Apollos, for your sakes, that ye might learne by vs, that no man presume aboue that which is written, that one swell not against another for any mans cause.
1 Corinthians 4:7	For who separateth thee? and what hast thou, that thou hast not receiued? if thou hast receiued it, why reioycest thou, as though thou haddest not receiued it?
1 Corinthians 4:8	Nowe ye are full: nowe ye are made rich: ye reigne as kings without vs, and would to God ye did reigne, that we also might reigne with you.
1 Corinthians 4:9	For I thinke that God hath set forth vs the last Apostles, as men appointed to death: for we are made a gasing stocke vnto the worlde, and to the Angels, and to men.
1 Corinthians 4:10	We are fooles for Christes sake, and ye are wise in Christ: we are weake, and ye are strong: ye are honourable, and we are despised.
1 Corinthians 4:11	Vnto this houre we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and haue no certaine dwelling place,
1 Corinthians 4:12	And labour, working with our owne handes: we are reuiled, and yet we blesse: we are persecuted, and suffer it.
1 Corinthians 4:13	We are euill spoken of, and we pray: we are made as the filth of the world, the offskowring of all things, vnto this time.
1 Corinthians 4:14	I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloued children I admonish you.
1 Corinthians 4:15	For though ye haue tenne thousand instructours in Christ, yet haue ye not many fathers: for in Christ Iesus I haue begotten you through the Gospel.
1 Corinthians 4:16	Wherefore, I pray you, be ye folowers of me.
1 Corinthians 4:17	For this cause haue I sent vnto you Timotheus, which is my beloued sonne, and faithfull in the Lord, which shall put you in remembrance of my wayes in Christ as I teache euery where in euery Church.
1 Corinthians 4:18	Some are puffed vp as though I woulde not come vnto you.
1 Corinthians 4:19	But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will, and will knowe, not the wordes of them which are puffed vp, but the power.
1 Corinthians 4:20	For the kingdome of God is not in worde, but in power.
1 Corinthians 4:21	What will ye? shall I come vnto you with a rod, or in loue, and in ye spirite of meekenes?
1 Corinthians 5:1	It is heard certainely that there is fornication among you: and such fornication as is not once named among the Gentiles, that one should haue his fathers wife.
1 Corinthians 5:2	And ye are puffed vp and haue not rather sorowed, that he which hath done this deede, might be put from among you.
1 Corinthians 5:3	For I verely as absent in bodie, but present in spirit, haue determined already as though I were present, that he that hath thus done this thing,
1 Corinthians 5:4	When ye are gathered together, and my spirit, in the Name of our Lord Iesus Christ, that such one, I say, by the power of our Lord Iesus Christ,
1 Corinthians 5:5	Be deliuered vnto Satan, for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saued in the day of the Lord Iesus.
1 Corinthians 5:6	Your reioycing is not good: knowe ye not that a litle leauen, leaueneth ye whole lumpe?
1 Corinthians 5:7	Purge out therefore the olde leauen, that ye may be a newe lumpe, as ye are vnleauened: for Christ our Passeouer is sacrificed for vs.
1 Corinthians 5:8	Therefore let vs keepe the feast, not with olde leauen, neither in the leauen of maliciousnes and wickednesse: but with the vnleauened bread of synceritie and trueth.
1 Corinthians 5:9	I wrote vnto you in an Epistle, that ye should not companie together with fornicatours,
1 Corinthians 5:10	And not altogether with the fornicatours of this world, or with the couetous, or with extortioners, or with idolaters: for then ye must goe out of the world.
1 Corinthians 5:11	But nowe I haue written vnto you, that ye companie not together: if any that is called a brother, be a fornicatour, or couetous, or an idolater, or a rayler, or a drunkard, or an extortioner, with such one eate not.
1 Corinthians 5:12	For what haue I to doe, to iudge them also which are without? doe ye not iudge them that are within?
1 Corinthians 5:13	But God iudgeth them that are without. Put away therefore from among your selues that wicked man.
1 Corinthians 6:1	Dare any of you, hauing businesse against an other, be iudged vnder the vniust, and not vnder the Saintes?
1 Corinthians 6:2	Doe ye not knowe, that the Saintes shall iudge the worlde? If the worlde then shalbe iudged by you, are ye vnworthie to iudge the smallest matters?
1 Corinthians 6:3	Knowe ye not that we shall iudge the Angels? howe much more, things that perteine to this life?
1 Corinthians 6:4	If then ye haue iudgements of things perteining to this life, set vp them which are least esteemed in the Church.
1 Corinthians 6:5	I speake it to your shame. Is it so that there is not a wise man among you? no not one, that can iudge betweene his brethren?
1 Corinthians 6:6	But a brother goeth to law with a brother, and that vnder the infidels.
1 Corinthians 6:7	Nowe therefore there is altogether infirmitie in you, in that yee goe to lawe one with another: why rather suffer ye not wrong? why rather susteine yee not harme?
1 Corinthians 6:8	Nay, yee your selues doe wrong, and doe harme, and that to your brethren.
1 Corinthians 6:9	Knowe yee not that the vnrighteous shall not inherite the kingdome of God? Be not deceiued: neither fornicatours, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor wantons, nor buggerers,
1 Corinthians 6:10	Nor theeues, nor couetous, nor drunkards, nor railers, nor extortioners shall inherite the kingdome of God.
1 Corinthians 6:11	And such were some of you: but yee are washed, but yee are sanctified, but yee are iustified in the Name of the Lord Iesus, and by the Spirit of our God.
1 Corinthians 6:12	All thinges are lawfull vnto mee, but all thinges are not profitable. I may doe all things, but I will not be brought vnder the power of any thing.
1 Corinthians 6:13	Meates are ordeined for the bellie, and the belly for the meates: but God shall destroy both it, and them. Nowe the bodie is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the bodie.
1 Corinthians 6:14	And God hath also raised vp the Lord, and shall raise vs vp by his power.
1 Corinthians 6:15	Knowe yee not, that your bodies are the members of Christ? shall I then take the members of Christ, and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid.
1 Corinthians 6:16	Doe ye not knowe, that he which coupleth himselfe with an harlot, is one body? for two, sayeth he, shalbe one flesh.
1 Corinthians 6:17	But hee that is ioyned vnto the Lord, is one spirite.
1 Corinthians 6:18	Flee fornication: euery sinne that a man doeth, is without the bodie: but hee that committeth fornication, sinneth against his owne bodie.
1 Corinthians 6:19	Knowe yee not, that your body is the temple of the holy Ghost, which is in you, whom ye haue of God? and yee are not your owne.
1 Corinthians 6:20	For yee are bought for a price: therefore glorifie God in your bodie, and in your spirit: for they are Gods.
1 Corinthians 7:1	Nowe concerning the thinges whereof ye wrote vnto mee, It were good for a man not to touche a woman.
1 Corinthians 7:2	Neuertheles, to auoide fornication, let euery man haue his wife, and let euery woman haue her owne husband.
1 Corinthians 7:3	Let the husband giue vnto the wife due beneuolence, and likewise also the wife vnto the husband.
1 Corinthians 7:4	The wife hath not the power of her owne bodie, but ye husband: and likewise also the husband hath not ye power of his own body, but the wife.
1 Corinthians 7:5	Defraude not one another, except it be with consent for a time, that ye may giue your selues to fasting and praier, and againe come together that Satan tempt you not for your incontinecie.
1 Corinthians 7:6	But I speake this by permission, not by commandement.
1 Corinthians 7:7	For I woulde that all men were euen as I my selfe am: but euery man hath his proper gift of God, one after this maner, and another after that.
1 Corinthians 7:8	Therefore I say vnto the vnmaried, and vnto the widowes, It is good for them if they abide euen as I doe.
1 Corinthians 7:9	But if they cannot abstaine, let them marrie: for it is better to marrie then to burne.
1 Corinthians 7:10	And vnto ye maried I comand, not I, but ye Lord, Let not ye wife depart from her husband.
1 Corinthians 7:11	But and if shee depart, let her remaine vnmaried, or be reconciled vnto her husband, and let not the husband put away his wife.
1 Corinthians 7:12	But to ye remnant I speake, and not ye Lord, If any brother haue a wife, ye beleeueth not, if she be content to dwell with him, let him not forsake her.
1 Corinthians 7:13	And the woman which hath an husband that beleeueth not, if he be content to dwell with her, let her not forsake him.
1 Corinthians 7:14	For the vnbeleeuing husband is sanctified to the wife, and the vnbeleeuing wife is sanctified to the husband, els were your children vncleane: but nowe are they holie.
1 Corinthians 7:15	But if the vnbeleeuing depart, let him depart: a brother or a sister is not in subiection in such things: but God hath called vs in peace.
1 Corinthians 7:16	For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt saue thine husband? Or what knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt saue thy wife?
1 Corinthians 7:17	But as God hath distributed to euery man, as the Lord hath called euery one, so let him walke: and so ordaine I, in all Churches.
1 Corinthians 7:18	Is any man called being circumcised? let him not gather his vncircumcision: is any called vncircumcised? let him not be circumcised.
1 Corinthians 7:19	Circumcision is nothing, and vncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of the commandements of God.
1 Corinthians 7:20	Let euery man abide in the same vocation wherein he was called.
1 Corinthians 7:21	Art thou called being a seruant? care not for it: but if yet thou maiest be free, vse it rather.
1 Corinthians 7:22	For he that is called in the Lord, being. a seruant, is the Lords freeman: likewise also he that is called being free, is Christes seruant.
1 Corinthians 7:23	Yee are bought with a price: be not the seruants of men.
1 Corinthians 7:24	Brethren, let euery man, wherein hee was called, therein abide with God.
1 Corinthians 7:25	Nowe concerning virgines, I haue no commandement of the Lord: but I giue mine aduise, as one that hath obtained mercie of the Lord to be faithfull.
1 Corinthians 7:26	I suppose then this to bee good for the present necessitie: I meane that it is good for a man so to be.
1 Corinthians 7:27	Art thou bounde vnto a wife? seeke not to be loosed: art thou loosed from a wife? seeke not a wife.
1 Corinthians 7:28	But if thou takest a wife, thou sinnest not: and if a virgine marrie, shee sinneth not: neuerthelesse, such shall haue trouble in the flesh: but I spare you.
1 Corinthians 7:29	And this I say, brethren, because the time is short, hereafter that both they which haue wiues, be as though they had none:
1 Corinthians 7:30	And they that weepe, as though they wept not: and they that reioyce, as though they reioyced not: and they that bye, as though they possessed not:
1 Corinthians 7:31	And they that vse this worlde, as though they vsed it not: for the fashion of this worlde goeth away.
1 Corinthians 7:32	And I would haue you without care. The vnmaried careth for the things of the Lord, howe he may please the Lord.
1 Corinthians 7:33	But hee that is maried, careth for the things of the world, how he may please his wife.
1 Corinthians 7:34	There is difference also betweene a virgine and a wife: the vnmaried woman careth for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy, both in body and in spirite: but shee that is maried, careth for the things of the worlde, howe shee may please her husband.
1 Corinthians 7:35	And this I speake for your owne commoditie, not to tangle you in a snare, but that yee follow that, which is honest, and that yee may cleaue fast vnto the Lord without separation.
1 Corinthians 7:36	But if any man thinke that it is vncomely for his virgine, if shee passe the flower of her age, and neede so require, let him do what he will, he sinneth not: let them be maried.
1 Corinthians 7:37	Neuerthelesse, hee that standeth firme in his heart, that hee hath no neede, but hath power ouer his owne will, and hath so decreed in his heart, that hee will keepe his virgine, hee doeth well.
1 Corinthians 7:38	So then hee that giueth her to mariage, doeth well, but he that giueth her not to mariage, doeth better.
1 Corinthians 7:39	The wife is bounde by the Lawe, as long as her husband liueth: but if her husband bee dead, shee is at libertie to marie with whome she will, onely in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 7:40	But shee is more blessed, if she so abide, in my iudgement: and I thinke that I haue also the Spirite of God.
1 Corinthians 8:1	And as touching things sacrificed vnto idols, wee knowe that wee all haue knowledge: knowledge puffeth vp, but loue edifieth.
1 Corinthians 8:2	Nowe, if any man thinke that hee knoweth any thing, hee knoweth nothing yet as hee ought to knowe.
1 Corinthians 8:3	But if any man loue God, the same is knowen of him.
1 Corinthians 8:4	Concerning therefore the eating of things sacrificed vnto idoles, we knowe that an idole is nothing in the worlde, and that there is none other God but one.
1 Corinthians 8:5	For though there bee that are called gods, whether in heauen, or in earth (as there be many gods, and many lords)
1 Corinthians 8:6	Yet vnto vs there is but one God, which is that Father, of whome are all things, and we in him: and one Lord Iesus Christ, by whome are all things, and we by him.
1 Corinthians 8:7	But euery man hath not that knowledge: for many hauing conscience of the idole, vntill this houre, eate as a thing sacrificed vnto the idole, and so their conscience being weake, is defiled.
1 Corinthians 8:8	But meate maketh not vs acceptable to God, for neither if we eate, haue we the more: neither if we eate not, haue we the lesse.
1 Corinthians 8:9	But take heede lest by any meanes this power of yours be an occasion of falling, to them that are weake.
1 Corinthians 8:10	For if any man see thee which hast knowledge, sit at table in the idoles temple, shall not the conscience of him which is weake, be boldened to eate those things which are sacrificed to idoles?
1 Corinthians 8:11	And through thy knowledge shall the weake brother perish, for whome Christ died.
1 Corinthians 8:12	Nowe when ye sinne so against the brethren, and wound their weake conscience, ye sinne against Christ.
1 Corinthians 8:13	Wherefore if meate offende my brother, I wil eate no flesh while the world standeth, that I may not offend my brother.
1 Corinthians 9:1	Am I not an Apostle? am I not free? haue I not seene Iesus Christ our Lord? are ye not my worke in the Lord?
1 Corinthians 9:2	If I be not an Apostle vnto other, yet doutlesse I am vnto you: for ye are the seale of mine Apostleship in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 9:3	My defence to them that examine mee, is this,
1 Corinthians 9:4	Haue we not power to eat and to drinke?
1 Corinthians 9:5	Or haue we not power to lead about a wife being a sister, as well as the rest of the Apostles, and as the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas?
1 Corinthians 9:6	Or I only and Barnabas, haue not we power not to worke?
1 Corinthians 9:7	Who goeth a warfare any time at his owne coste? who planteth a vineyarde, and eateth not of the fruit thereof? or who feedeth a flocke, and eateth not of the milke of the flocke?
1 Corinthians 9:8	Say I these thinges according to man? saith not the Lawe the same also?
1 Corinthians 9:9	For it is written in the Lawe of Moses, Thou shalt not mussell the mouth of the oxe that treadeth out the corne: doeth God take care for oxen?
1 Corinthians 9:10	Either saith hee it not altogether for our sakes? For our sakes no doubt it is written, that he which eareth, should eare in hope, and that he that thresheth in hope, should be partaker of his hope.
1 Corinthians 9:11	If wee haue sowen vnto you spirituall thinges, is it a great thing if we reape your carnall thinges?
1 Corinthians 9:12	If others with you bee partakers of this power, are not we rather? neuerthelesse, we haue not vsed this power: but suffer all things, that we should not hinder the Gospel of Christ.
1 Corinthians 9:13	Doe ye not knowe, that they which minister about the holy things, eate of the things of the Temple? and they which waite at the altar, are partakers with the altar?
1 Corinthians 9:14	So also hath the Lord ordeined, that they which preach ye Gospel, should liue of the Gospel.
1 Corinthians 9:15	But I haue vsed none of these things: neither wrote I these things, that it should be so done vnto me: for it were better for me to die, then that any man should make my reioycing vaine.
1 Corinthians 9:16	For though I preach the Gospel, I haue nothing to reioyce of: for necessitie is laid vpon me, and woe is vnto me, if I preach not the Gospel.
1 Corinthians 9:17	For if I do it willingly, I haue a reward, but if I do it against my will, notwithstanding the dispensation is committed vnto me.
1 Corinthians 9:18	What is my reward then? verely that when I preach the Gospel, I make the Gospel of Christ free, that I abuse not mine authoritie in ye Gospel.
1 Corinthians 9:19	For though I bee free from all men, yet haue I made my selfe seruant vnto all men, that I might winne the moe.
1 Corinthians 9:20	And vnto the Iewes, I become as a Iewe, that I may winne the Iewes: to them that are vnder the Lawe, as though I were vnder the Lawe, that I may winne them that are vnder the Lawe:
1 Corinthians 9:21	To them that are without Lawe, as though I were without Lawe, (when I am not without Lawe as pertaining to God, but am in the Lawe through Christ) that I may winne them that are without Lawe:
1 Corinthians 9:22	To the weake I become as weake, that I may winne the weake: I am made all thinges to all men, that I might by all meanes saue some.
1 Corinthians 9:23	And this I doe for the Gospels sake, that I might be partaker thereof with you.
1 Corinthians 9:24	Knowe ye not, that they which runne in a race, runne all, yet one receiueth the price? so runne that ye may obtaine.
1 Corinthians 9:25	And euery man that proueth masteries, abstaineth from all things: and they do it to obtaine a corruptible crowne: but we for an vncorruptible.
1 Corinthians 9:26	I therefore so runne, not as vncertainely: so fight I, not as one that beateth the ayre.
1 Corinthians 9:27	But I beate downe my body, and bring it into subiection, lest by any meanes after that I haue preached to other, I my selfe should be reproued.
1 Corinthians 10:1	Moreouer, brethren, I woulde not that yee shoulde bee ignorant, that all our fathers were vnder that cloude, and all passed through that sea,
1 Corinthians 10:2	And were all baptized vnto Moses, in that cloude, and in that sea,
1 Corinthians 10:3	And did all eat the same spiritual meat,
1 Corinthians 10:4	And did all drinke the same spirituall drinke (for they dranke of the spiritual Rocke that folowed them: and the Rocke was Christ)
1 Corinthians 10:5	But with many of them God was not pleased: for they were ouerthrowen in ye wildernes.
1 Corinthians 10:6	Nowe these things are our ensamples, to the intent that we should not lust after euil things as they also lusted.
1 Corinthians 10:7	Neither bee ye idolaters as were some of them, as it is written, The people sate downe to eate and drinke, and rose vp to play.
1 Corinthians 10:8	Neither let vs commit fornication, as some of them committed fornication, and fell in one day three and twentie thousand.
1 Corinthians 10:9	Neither let vs tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted him, and were destroyed of serpents.
1 Corinthians 10:10	Neither murmure ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer.
1 Corinthians 10:11	Nowe all these things came vnto them for ensamples, and were written to admonish vs, vpon whome the endes of the world are come.
1 Corinthians 10:12	Wherefore, let him that thinketh he standeth, take heede lest he fall.
1 Corinthians 10:13	There hath no tentation taken you, but such as appertaine to man: and God is faithfull, which will not suffer you to be tempted aboue that you be able, but wil euen giue the issue with the tentation, that ye may be able to beare it.
1 Corinthians 10:14	Wherefore my beloued, flee from idolatrie.
1 Corinthians 10:15	I speake as vnto them which haue vnderstanding: iugde ye what I say.
1 Corinthians 10:16	The cup of blessing which we blesse, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we breake, is it not the communion of the body of Christ?
1 Corinthians 10:17	For we that are many, are one bread and one body, because we all are partakers of one bread.
1 Corinthians 10:18	Beholde Israel, which is after the flesh: are not they which eate of the sacrifices partakers of the altar?
1 Corinthians 10:19	What say I then? that the idole is any thing? or that that which is sacrificed to idoles, is any thing?
1 Corinthians 10:20	Nay, but that these things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to deuils, and not vnto God: and I would not that ye should haue fellowship with the deuils.
1 Corinthians 10:21	Ye can not drinke the cup of the Lord, and the cup of the deuils. Ye can not be partakers of the Lords table, and of the table of the deuils.
1 Corinthians 10:22	Doe we prouoke the Lord to anger? are we stronger then he?
1 Corinthians 10:23	All things are lawfull for me, but all things are not expedient: all things are lawfull for me, but all things edifie not.
1 Corinthians 10:24	Let no man seeke his owne, but euery man anothers wealth.
1 Corinthians 10:25	Whatsoeuer is solde in the shambles, eate ye, and aske no question for conscience sake.
1 Corinthians 10:26	For the earth is the Lords, and all that therein is.
1 Corinthians 10:27	If any of them which beleeue not, call you to a feast, and if ye wil go, whatsoeuer is set before you, eate, asking no question for conscience sake.
1 Corinthians 10:28	But if any man say vnto you, This is sacrificed vnto idoles, eate it not, because of him that shewed it, and for the conscience (for the earth is the Lords, and all that therein is)
1 Corinthians 10:29	And the conscience, I say, not thine, but of that other: for why should my libertie be condemned of another mans conscience?
1 Corinthians 10:30	For if I through Gods benefite be partaker, why am I euill spoken of, for that wherefore I giue thankes?
1 Corinthians 10:31	Whether therefore ye eate, or drinke, or whatsoeuer ye doe, doe all to the glory of God.
1 Corinthians 10:32	Giue none offence, neither to the Iewes, nor to the Grecians, nor to the Church of God:
1 Corinthians 10:33	Euen as I please all men in all things, not seeking mine owne profite, but the profite of many, that they might be saued.
1 Corinthians 11:1	Be yee followers of mee, euen as I am of Christ.
1 Corinthians 11:2	Now brethren, I commend you, that ye remember all my things, and keepe the ordinances, as I deliuered them to you.
1 Corinthians 11:3	But I wil that ye know, that Christ is the head of euery man: and the man is the womans head: and God is Christs head.
1 Corinthians 11:4	Euery man praying or prophecying hauing any thing on his head, dishonoureth his head.
1 Corinthians 11:5	But euery woman that prayeth or prophecieth bare headed, dishonoureth her head: for it is euen one very thing, as though she were shauen.
1 Corinthians 11:6	Therefore if the woman be not couered, let her also be shorne: and if it be shame for a woman to be shorne or shauen, let her be couered.
1 Corinthians 11:7	For a man ought not to couer his head: for as much as he is the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man.
1 Corinthians 11:8	For the man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man.
1 Corinthians 11:9	For the man was not created for the womans sake: but the woman for the mans sake.
1 Corinthians 11:10	Therefore ought the woman to haue power on her head, because of the Angels.
1 Corinthians 11:11	Neuertheles, neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 11:12	For as the woman is of the man, so is the man also by the woman: but all things are of God.
1 Corinthians 11:13	Iudge in your selues, Is it comely that a woman pray vnto God vncouered?
1 Corinthians 11:14	Doeth not nature it selfe teach you, that if a man haue long heare, it is a shame vnto him?
1 Corinthians 11:15	But if a woman haue long heare, it is a prayse vnto her: for her heare is giuen her for a couering.
1 Corinthians 11:16	But if any man lust to be contentious, we haue no such custome, neither the Churches of God.
1 Corinthians 11:17	Nowe in this that I declare, I prayse you not, that ye come together, not with profite, but with hurt.
1 Corinthians 11:18	For first of all, when ye come together in the Church, I heare that there are dissentions among you: and I beleeue it to be true in some part.
1 Corinthians 11:19	For there must be heresies euen among you, that they which are approoued among you, might be knowen.
1 Corinthians 11:20	When ye come together therefore into one place, this is not to eate the Lords Supper.
1 Corinthians 11:21	For euery man when they should eate, taketh his owne supper afore, and one is hungry, and another is drunken.
1 Corinthians 11:22	Haue ye not houses to eate and to drinke in? despise ye the Church of God, and shame them that haue not? what shall I say to you? shall I prayse you in this? I prayse you not.
1 Corinthians 11:23	For I haue receiued of the Lord that which I also haue deliuered vnto you, to wit, That the Lord Iesus in the night when he was betrayed, tooke bread:
1 Corinthians 11:24	And when hee had giuen thankes, hee brake it, and sayde, Take, eate: this is my body, which is broken for you: this doe ye in remembrance of me.
1 Corinthians 11:25	After the same maner also he tooke the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the Newe Testament in my blood: this doe as oft as ye drinke it, in remembrance of me.
1 Corinthians 11:26	For as often as ye shall eate this bread, and drinke this cup, ye shewe the Lords death till hee come.
1 Corinthians 11:27	Wherefore, whosoeuer shall eate this bread, and drinke the cup of the Lord vnworthily, shall be guiltie of the body and blood of the Lord.
1 Corinthians 11:28	Let euery man therefore examine himselfe, and so let him eate of this bread, and drinke of this cup.
1 Corinthians 11:29	For he that eateth and drinketh vnworthily, eateth and drinketh his owne damnation, because he discerneth not the Lords body.
1 Corinthians 11:30	For this cause many are weake, and sicke among you, and many sleepe.
1 Corinthians 11:31	For if we would iudge our selues, we should not be iudged.
1 Corinthians 11:32	But when we are iudged, we are chastened of the Lord, because we should not be condemned with the world.
1 Corinthians 11:33	Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eate, tary one for another.
1 Corinthians 11:34	And if any man be hungry, let him eate at home, that ye come not together vnto condemnation. Other things will I set in order when I come.
1 Corinthians 12:1	Now concerning spirituall giftes, brethren, I would not haue you ignorant.
1 Corinthians 12:2	Ye know that ye were Gentiles, and were caried away vnto the dumme Idoles, as ye were led.
1 Corinthians 12:3	Wherefore, I declare vnto you, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Iesus execrable: also no man can say that Iesus is the Lord, but by the holy Ghost.
1 Corinthians 12:4	Now there are diuersities of gifts, but the same Spirit.
1 Corinthians 12:5	And there are diuersities of administrations, but the same Lord,
1 Corinthians 12:6	And there are diuersities of operations, but God is the same which worketh all in all.
1 Corinthians 12:7	But the manifestation of the Spirit is giuen to euery man, to profite withall.
1 Corinthians 12:8	For to one is giuen by the Spirit the word of wisdome: and to an other the word of knowledge, by the same Spirit:
1 Corinthians 12:9	And to another is giuen faith by the same Spirit: and to another the giftes of healing, by the same Spirit:
1 Corinthians 12:10	And to another the operations of great workes: and to another, prophecie: and to another, the discerning of spirits: and to another, diuersities of tongues: and to another, the interpretation of tongues.
1 Corinthians 12:11	And all these thinges worketh one and the selfe same Spirit, distributing to euery man seuerally as he will.
1 Corinthians 12:12	For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of the body, which is one, though they be many, yet are but one body: euen so is Christ.
1 Corinthians 12:13	For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we bee Iewes, or Grecians, whether we be bonde, or free, and haue bene all made to drinke into one Spirit.
1 Corinthians 12:14	For the body also is not one member, but many.
1 Corinthians 12:15	If the foote would say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body?
1 Corinthians 12:16	And if the eare would say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body?
1 Corinthians 12:17	If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smellling?
1 Corinthians 12:18	But nowe hath God disposed the members euery one of them in the bodie at his owne pleasure.
1 Corinthians 12:19	For if they were all one member, where were the body?
1 Corinthians 12:20	But now are there many members, yet but one body.
1 Corinthians 12:21	And the eye cannot say vnto the hand, I haue no neede of thee: nor the head againe to the feete, I haue no neede of you.
1 Corinthians 12:22	Yea, much rather those members of the body, which seeme to be more feeble, are necessarie.
1 Corinthians 12:23	And vpon those members of the body, which wee thinke most vnhonest, put wee more honestie on: and our vncomely parts haue more comelinesse on.
1 Corinthians 12:24	For our comely partes neede it not: but God hath tempered the body together, and hath giuen the more honour to that part which lacked,
1 Corinthians 12:25	Lest there should be any diuision in the body: but that the members shoulde haue the same care one for another.
1 Corinthians 12:26	Therefore if one member suffer, all suffer with it: if one member be had in honour, all the members reioyce with it.
1 Corinthians 12:27	Now ye are the body of Christ, and members for your part.
1 Corinthians 12:28	And God hath ordained some in the Church: as first Apostles, secondly Prophetes, thirdly teachers, then them that doe miracles: after that, the giftes of healing, helpers, gouernours, diuersitie of tongues.
1 Corinthians 12:29	Are all Apostles? are all Prophetes? are all teachers?
1 Corinthians 12:30	Are all doers of miracles? haue all the gifts of healing? doe all speake with tongues? doe all interprete?
1 Corinthians 12:31	But desire you the best giftes, and I will yet shewe you a more excellent way.
1 Corinthians 13:1	Though I speake with the tongues of men and Angels, and haue not loue, I am as sounding brasse, or a tinkling cymbal.
1 Corinthians 13:2	And though I had the gift of prophecie, and knewe all secrets and all knowledge, yea, if I had all faith, so that I could remooue mountaines and had not loue, I were nothing.
1 Corinthians 13:3	And though I feede the poore with all my goods, and though I giue my body, that I be burned, and haue not loue, it profiteth me nothing.
1 Corinthians 13:4	Loue suffreth long: it is bountifull: loue enuieth not: loue doeth not boast it selfe: it is not puffed vp:
1 Corinthians 13:5	It doeth no vncomely thing: it seeketh not her owne things: it is not prouoked to anger: it thinketh not euill:
1 Corinthians 13:6	It reioyceth not in iniquitie, but reioyceth in the trueth:
1 Corinthians 13:7	It suffreth all things: it beleeueth all things: it hopeth all things: it endureth all things.
1 Corinthians 13:8	Loue doeth neuer fall away, though that prophecyings be abolished, or the tongues cease, or knowledge vanish away.
1 Corinthians 13:9	For we knowe in part, and we prophecie in part.
1 Corinthians 13:10	But when that which is perfect, is come, then that which is in part, shalbe abolished.
1 Corinthians 13:11	When I was a childe, I spake as a childe, I vnderstoode as a childe, I thought as a childe: but when I became a man, I put away childish thinges.
1 Corinthians 13:12	For nowe we see through a glasse darkely: but then shall wee see face to face. Nowe I know in part: but then shall I know euen as I am knowen.
1 Corinthians 13:13	And nowe abideth faith, hope and loue, euen these three: but the chiefest of these is loue.
1 Corinthians 14:1	Followe after loue, and couet spirituall giftes, and rather that ye may prophecie.
1 Corinthians 14:2	For hee that speaketh a strange tongue, speaketh not vnto men, but vnto God: for no man heareth him: howbeit in the spirit he speaketh secret things.
1 Corinthians 14:3	But he that prophecieth, speaketh vnto me to edifying, and to exhortation, and to comfort.
1 Corinthians 14:4	He that speaketh strange language, edifieth himselfe: but hee that prophecieth, edifieth the Church.
1 Corinthians 14:5	I would that ye all spake strange languages, but rather that ye prophecied: for greater is hee that prophecieth, then hee that speaketh diuers tongues, except hee expound it, that the Church may receiue edification.
1 Corinthians 14:6	And nowe, brethren, if I come vnto you speaking diuers tongues, what shall I profite you, except I speake to you, either by reuelation, or by knowledge, or by prophecying, or by doctrine?
1 Corinthians 14:7	Moreouer things without life which giue a sounde, whether it be a pipe or an harpe, except they make a distinction in the soundes, how shall it be knowen what is piped or harped?
1 Corinthians 14:8	And also if the trumpet giue an vncertaine sound, who shall prepare himselfe to battell?
1 Corinthians 14:9	So likewise you, by the tongue, except yee vtter wordes that haue signification, howe shall it be vnderstand what is spoken? for ye shall speake in the ayre.
1 Corinthians 14:10	There are so many kindes of voyces (as it commeth to passe) in the world, and none of them is dumme.
1 Corinthians 14:11	Except I know then the power of ye voyce, I shall be vnto him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh, shalbe a barbarian vnto me.
1 Corinthians 14:12	Euen so, forasmuch as ye couet spirituall giftes, seeke that ye may excell vnto the edifying of the Church.
1 Corinthians 14:13	Wherefore, let him that speaketh a strange tongue, pray, that he may interprete.
1 Corinthians 14:14	For if I pray in a strange togue, my spirit prayeth: but mine vnderstading is without fruite.
1 Corinthians 14:15	What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, but I wil pray with the vnderstanding also: I wil sing with the spirite, but I will sing with the vnderstanding also.
1 Corinthians 14:16	Else, when thou blessest with the spirit, howe shall hee that occupieth the roome of the vnlearned, say Amen, at thy giuing of thankes, seeing he knoweth not what thou sayest?
1 Corinthians 14:17	For thou verely giuest thankes well, but the other is not edified.
1 Corinthians 14:18	I thanke my God, I speake languages more then ye all.
1 Corinthians 14:19	Yet had I rather in the Church to speake fiue wordes with mine vnderstanding, that I might also instruct others, then ten thousande wordes in a strange tongue.
1 Corinthians 14:20	Brethren, be not children in vnderstanding, but as concerning maliciousnes be children, but in vnderstanding be of a ripe age.
1 Corinthians 14:21	In the Lawe it is written, By men of other tongues, and by other languages will I speake vnto this people: yet so shall they not heare me, sayth the Lord.
1 Corinthians 14:22	Wherefore strange tongues are for a signe, not to them that beleeue, but to them that beleeue not: but prophecying serueth not for them that beleeue not, but for them which beleeue.
1 Corinthians 14:23	If therefore when the whole Church is come together in one, and all speake strange tongues, there come in they that are vnlearned, or they which beleeue not, will they not say, that ye are out of your wittes?
1 Corinthians 14:24	But if all prophecie, and there come in one that beleeueth not, or one vnlearned, hee is rebuked of all men, and is iudged of all,
1 Corinthians 14:25	And so are the secrets of his heart made manifest, and so he will fall downe on his face and worship God, and say plainely that God is in you in deede.
1 Corinthians 14:26	What is to be done then, brethren? when ye come together, according as euery one of you hath a Psalme, or hath doctrine, or hath a tongue, or hath reuelation, or hath interpretation, let all things be done vnto edifying.
1 Corinthians 14:27	If any man speake a strange tongue, let it be by two, or at the most, by three, and that by course, and let one interprete.
1 Corinthians 14:28	But if there be no interpreter, let him keepe silence in the Church, which speaketh languages, and let him speake to himselfe, and to God.
1 Corinthians 14:29	Let the Prophets speake two, or three, and let the other iudge.
1 Corinthians 14:30	And if any thing be reueiled to another that sitteth by, let the first holde his peace.
1 Corinthians 14:31	For ye may all prophecie one by one, that all may learne, and all may haue comfort.
1 Corinthians 14:32	And the spirits of the Prophets are subiect to the Prophets.
1 Corinthians 14:33	For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as we see in all ye Churches of the Saints.
1 Corinthians 14:34	Let your women keepe silence in the Churches: for it is not permitted vnto them to speake: but they ought to be subiect, as also the Lawe sayth.
1 Corinthians 14:35	And if they will learne any thing, let them aske their husbands at home: for it is a shame for women to speake in the Church.
1 Corinthians 14:36	Came the worde of God out from you? either came it vnto you onely?
1 Corinthians 14:37	If any man thinke him selfe to be a Prophet, or spirituall, let him acknowledge, that the things, that I write vnto you, are the commandements of the Lord.
1 Corinthians 14:38	And if any man be ignorant, let him be ignorant.
1 Corinthians 14:39	Wherefore, brethren, couet to prophecie, and forbid not to speake languages.
1 Corinthians 14:40	Let all things be done honestly, and by order.
1 Corinthians 15:1	Moreouer brethren, I declare vnto you the Gospel, which I preached vnto you, which ye haue also receiued, and wherein ye continue,
1 Corinthians 15:2	And whereby ye are saued, if ye keepe in memorie, after what maner I preached it vnto you, except ye haue beleeued in vaine.
1 Corinthians 15:3	For first of all, I deliuered vnto you that which I receiued, how that Christ died for our sinnes, according to the Scriptures,
1 Corinthians 15:4	And that he was buried, and that he arose the third day, according to the Scriptures,
1 Corinthians 15:5	And that he was seene of Cephas, then of the twelue.
1 Corinthians 15:6	After that, he was seene of more then fiue hudreth brethren at once: whereof many remaine vnto this present, and some also are asleepe.
1 Corinthians 15:7	After that, he was seene of Iames: then of all the Apostles.
1 Corinthians 15:8	And last of all he was seene also of me, as of one borne out of due time.
1 Corinthians 15:9	For I am the least of the Apostles, which am not meete to be called an Apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God.
1 Corinthians 15:10	But by the grace of God, I am that I am: and his grace which is in me, was not in vaine: but I laboured more aboundantly then they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which is with me.
1 Corinthians 15:11	Wherefore, whether it were I, or they, so we preach, and so haue ye beleeued.
1 Corinthians 15:12	Now if it be preached, that Christ is risen from the dead, how say some among you, that there is no resurrection of the dead?
1 Corinthians 15:13	For if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen:
1 Corinthians 15:14	And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vaine, and your faith is also vaine.
1 Corinthians 15:15	And we are found also false witnesses of God: for we haue testified of God, that he hath raised vp Christ: whome he hath not raised vp, if so be the dead be not raised.
1 Corinthians 15:16	For if the dead be not raised, then is Christ not raised.
1 Corinthians 15:17	And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vaine: ye are yet in your sinnes.
1 Corinthians 15:18	And so they which are a sleepe in Christ, are perished.
1 Corinthians 15:19	If in this life onely wee haue hope in Christ, we are of all men the most miserable.
1 Corinthians 15:20	But nowe is Christ risen from the dead, and was made the first fruites of them that slept.
1 Corinthians 15:21	For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead.
1 Corinthians 15:22	For as in Adam all die, euen so in Christ shall all be made aliue,
1 Corinthians 15:23	But euery man in his owne order: the first fruites is Christ, afterward, they that are of Christ, at his comming shall rise againe.
1 Corinthians 15:24	Then shalbe the end, when he hath deliuered vp the kingdome to God, euen the Father, when he hath put downe all rule, and all authoritie and power.
1 Corinthians 15:25	For he must reigne till hee hath put all his enemies vnder his feete.
1 Corinthians 15:26	The last enemie that shalbe destroyed, is death.
1 Corinthians 15:27	For he hath put downe all things vnder his feete. (And when he saith that all things are subdued to him, it is manifest that he is excepted, which did put downe all things vnder him.)
1 Corinthians 15:28	And when all things shalbe subdued vnto him, then shall the Sonne also himselfe be subiect vnto him, that did subdue all things vnder him, that God may be all in all.
1 Corinthians 15:29	Els what shall they doe which are baptized for dead? if the dead rise not at all, why are they then baptized for dead?
1 Corinthians 15:30	Why are wee also in ieopardie euery houre?
1 Corinthians 15:31	By your reioycing which I haue in Christ Iesus our Lord, I die dayly.
1 Corinthians 15:32	If I haue fought with beastes at Ephesus after ye maner of men, what aduantageth it me, if the dead be not raised vp? let vs eate and drinke: for to morowe we shall die.
1 Corinthians 15:33	Be not deceiued: euill speakings corrupt good maners.
1 Corinthians 15:34	Awake to liue righteously, and sinne not: for some haue not ye knowledge of God, I speake this to your shame.
1 Corinthians 15:35	But some man will say, Howe are the dead raised vp? and with what body come they foorth?
1 Corinthians 15:36	O foole, that which thou sowest, is not quickened, except it die.
1 Corinthians 15:37	And that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shalbe, but bare corne as it falleth, of wheat, or of some other.
1 Corinthians 15:38	But God giueth it a body at his pleasure, euen to euery seede his owne body,
1 Corinthians 15:39	All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one flesh of men, and another flesh of beastes, and another of fishes, and another of birdes.
1 Corinthians 15:40	There are also heauenly bodies, and earthly bodies: but the glorie of the heauenly is one, and the glorie of the earthly is another.
1 Corinthians 15:41	There is another glorie of the sunne, and another glorie of the moone, and another glorie of the starres: for one starre differeth from another starre in glorie.
1 Corinthians 15:42	So also is the resurrection of the dead. The bodie is sowen in corruption, and is raysed in incorruption.
1 Corinthians 15:43	It is sowen in dishonour, and is raysed in glory: it is sowen in weakenesse, and is raysed in power.
1 Corinthians 15:44	It is sowen a naturall body, and is raysed a spirituall body: there is a naturall body, and there is a spirituall body.
1 Corinthians 15:45	As it is also written, The first man Adam was made a liuing soule: and the last Adam was made a quickening Spirit.
1 Corinthians 15:46	Howbeit that was not first which is spirituall: but that which is naturall, and afterward that which is spirituall.
1 Corinthians 15:47	The first man is of the earth, earthly: the second man is the Lord from heauen.
1 Corinthians 15:48	As is the earthly, such are they that are earthly: and as is the heauenly, such are they also that are heauenly.
1 Corinthians 15:49	And as we haue borne the image of the earthly, so shall we beare the image of the heauenly.
1 Corinthians 15:50	This say I, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherite the kingdome of God, neither doeth corruption inherite incorruption.
1 Corinthians 15:51	Behold, I shewe you a secret thing, We shall not all sleepe, but we shall all be changed,
1 Corinthians 15:52	In a moment, in the twinckling of an eye at the last trumpet: for the trumpet shall blow, and the dead shalbe raysed vp incorruptible, and we shalbe changed.
1 Corinthians 15:53	For this corruptible must put on incorruption: and this mortall must put on immortalitie.
1 Corinthians 15:54	So when this corruptible hath put on incorruption, and this mortall hath put on immortalitie, then shalbe brought to passe the saying that is written, Death is swallowed vp into victorie.
1 Corinthians 15:55	O death where is thy sting? O graue where is thy victorie?
1 Corinthians 15:56	The sting of death is sinne: and ye strength of sinne is the Lawe.
1 Corinthians 15:57	But thankes be vnto God, which hath giuen vs victorie through our Lord Iesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 15:58	Therefore my beloued brethren, be ye stedfast, vnmoueable, aboundant alwayes in the worke of the Lord, forasmuch as ye knowe that your labour is not in vaine in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 16:1	Concerning the gathering for the Saintes, as I haue ordeined in the Churches of Galatia, so doe ye also.
1 Corinthians 16:2	Euery first day of the weeke, let euery one of you put aside by himselfe, and lay vp as God hath prospered him, that then there be no gatherings when I come.
1 Corinthians 16:3	And when I am come, whomsoeuer ye shall alowe by letters, them will I send to bring your liberalitie vnto Hierusalem.
1 Corinthians 16:4	And if it be meete that I goe also, they shall goe with me.
1 Corinthians 16:5	Nowe I will come vnto you, after I haue gone through Macedonia (for I will passe through Macedonia.)
1 Corinthians 16:6	And it may be that I will abide, yea, or winter with you, that ye may bring me on my way, whither soeuer I goe.
1 Corinthians 16:7	For I will not see you nowe in my passage, but I trust to abide a while with you, if the Lord permit.
1 Corinthians 16:8	And I wil tary at Ephesus vntill Pentecost.
1 Corinthians 16:9	For a great doore and effectuall is opened vnto me: and there are many aduersaries.
1 Corinthians 16:10	Nowe if Timotheus come, see that he be without feare with you: for he worketh the worke of the Lord, euen as I doe.
1 Corinthians 16:11	Let no man therefore despise him: but conuey him foorth in peace, that he may come vnto me: for I looke for him with the brethren.
1 Corinthians 16:12	As touching our brother Apollos, I greatly desired him, to come vnto you with the brethren: but his mind was not at all to come at this time: howbeit he will come when he shall haue conuenient time.
1 Corinthians 16:13	Watch ye: stand fast in the faith: quite you like men, and be strong.
1 Corinthians 16:14	Let all your things be done in loue.
1 Corinthians 16:15	Nowe brethren, I beseeche you (ye knowe the house of Stephanas, that it is the first fruites of Achaia, and that they haue giuen themselues to minister vnto the Saintes)
1 Corinthians 16:16	That ye be obedient euen vnto such, and to all that helpe with vs and labour.
1 Corinthians 16:17	I am glad of the comming of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus: for they haue supplied the want of you.
1 Corinthians 16:18	For they haue comforted my spirite and yours: acknowledge therefore such men.
1 Corinthians 16:19	The Churches of Asia salute you: Aquila and Priscilla with ye Church that is in their house, salute you greatly in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 16:20	All the brethren greete you. Greete ye one another, with an holy kisse.
1 Corinthians 16:21	The salutation of me Paul with mine owne hand.
1 Corinthians 16:22	If any man loue not the Lord Iesus Christ, let him be had in execration maran-atha.
1 Corinthians 16:23	The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with you.
1 Corinthians 16:24	My loue be with you all in Christ Iesus, Amen. ‘The first Epistle to the Corinthians, written from Philippi, and sent by Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus, and Timotheus.’

===== BOOK: 1 John =====
1 John 1:1	That which was from the beginning, which wee haue heard, which wee haue seene with these our eyes, which wee haue looked vpon, and these handes of ours haue handled of that Word of life,
1 John 1:2	(For that life was made manifest, and wee haue seene it, and beare witnes, and shewe vnto you that eternall life, which was with the Father, and was made manifest vnto vs)
1 John 1:3	That, I say, which wee haue seene and heard, declare wee vnto you, that yee may also haue fellowship with vs, and that our fellowship also may be with the Father, and with his Sonne Iesvs Christ.
1 John 1:4	And these thinges write we vnto you, that that your ioy may be full.
1 John 1:5	This then is the message which wee haue heard of him, and declare vnto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkenes.
1 John 1:6	If wee say that wee haue fellowship with him, and walke in darkenesse, we lie, and doe not truely:
1 John 1:7	But if we walke in the light as he is in the light, we haue fellowship one with another, and the blood of Iesus Christ his Sonne clenseth vs from all sinne.
1 John 1:8	If we say that we haue no sinne, we deceiue our selues, and trueth is not in vs.
1 John 1:9	If we acknowledge our sinnes, he is faithfull and iust, to forgiue vs our sinnes, and to clense vs from all vnrighteousnes.
1 John 1:10	If wee say we haue not sinned, wee make him a liar, and his word is not in vs.
1 John 2:1	My little children, these things write I vnto you, that ye sinne not: and if any man sinne, wee haue an Aduocate with the Father, Iesus Christ, the Iust.
1 John 2:2	And he is the reconciliation for our sinnes: and not for ours onely, but also for the sinnes of the whole world.
1 John 2:3	And hereby we are sure that we knowe him, if we keepe his commandements.
1 John 2:4	Hee that saith, I knowe him, and keepeth not his commandements, is a liar, and the trueth is not in him.
1 John 2:5	But hee that keepeth his worde, in him is the loue of God perfect in deede: hereby wee knowe that ye are in him.
1 John 2:6	He that saith he remaineth in him, ought euen so to walke, as he hath walked.
1 John 2:7	Brethren, I write no newe commandement vnto you: but an olde commandement, which ye haue had from the beginning: this olde commandement is that worde, which yee haue heard from the beginning.
1 John 2:8	Againe, a new comandement I write vnto you, that which is true in him, and also in you: for the darkenes is past, and that true light now shineth.
1 John 2:9	He that saith that hee is in that light, and hateth his brother, is in darkenes, vntill this time.
1 John 2:10	Hee that loueth his brother, abideth in that light, and there is none occasion of euil in him.
1 John 2:11	But he that hateth his brother, is in darkenesse, and walketh in darkenesse, and knoweth not whither hee goeth, because that darkenesse hath blinded his eyes.
1 John 2:12	Litle children, I write vnto you, because your sinnes are forgiuen you for his Names sake.
1 John 2:13	I write vnto you, fathers, because yee haue knowen him that is from the beginning. I write vnto you, yong men, because ye haue ouercome that wicked one. I write vnto you, litle children, because ye haue knowen ye Father.
1 John 2:14	I haue written vnto you, fathers, because ye haue knowen him, that is from the beginning. I haue written vnto you, yong men, because ye are strong, and the worde of God abideth in you, and ye haue ouercome that wicked one.
1 John 2:15	Loue not this world, neither the things that are in this world. If any man loue this world, the loue of the Father is not in him.
1 John 2:16	For all that is in this world (as the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life) is not of the Father, but is of this world.
1 John 2:17	And this world passeth away, and the lust thereof: but he that fulfilleth the will of God, abideth euer.
1 John 2:18	Litle children, it is the last time, and as ye haue heard that Antichrist shall come, euen now are there many Antichrists: whereby we know that it is the last time.
1 John 2:19	They went out from vs, but they were not of vs: for if they had bene of vs, they should haue continued with vs. But this cometh to passe, that it might appeare, that they are not all of vs.
1 John 2:20	But ye haue an ointment from that Holy one, and know all things.
1 John 2:21	I haue not written vnto you, because ye knowe not the trueth: but because ye knowe it, and that no lie is of the trueth.
1 John 2:22	Who is a liar, but he that denyeth that Iesus is that Christ? the same is that Antichrist that denyeth the Father and the Sonne.
1 John 2:23	Whosoeuer denyeth the Sonne, the same hath not the Father.
1 John 2:24	Let therefore abide in you that same which ye haue heard from the beginning. If that which ye haue heard from the beginning, shall remaine in you, ye also shall continue in the Sonne, and in the Father.
1 John 2:25	And this is the promise that he hath promised vs, euen that eternall life.
1 John 2:26	These things haue I written vnto you, concerning them that deceiue you.
1 John 2:27	But that anointing which ye receiued of him, dwelleth in you: and ye neede not that any man teach you: but as the same Anoynting teacheth you of all things, and it is true, and is not lying, and as it taught you, ye shall abide in him.
1 John 2:28	And nowe, litle children, abide in him, that when he shall appeare, we may be bolde, and not be ashamed before him at his comming.
1 John 2:29	If ye know that he is righteous, know ye that he which doeth righteously, is borne of him.
1 John 3:1	Behold, what loue the Father hath giuen to vs, that we should be called the sonnes of God: for this cause this world knoweth you not, because it knoweth not him.
1 John 3:2	Dearely beloued, nowe are we the sonnes of God, but yet it is not made manifest what we shall be: and we know that when he shalbe made manifest, we shalbe like him: for we shall see him as he is.
1 John 3:3	And euery man that hath this hope in him, purgeth himselfe, euen as he is pure.
1 John 3:4	Whosoeuer committeth sinne, transgresseth also the Law: for sinne is the transgression of the Lawe.
1 John 3:5	And ye knowe that hee was made manifest, that he might take away our sinnes, and in him is no sinne.
1 John 3:6	Whosoeuer abideth in him, sinneth not: whosoeuer sinneth, hath not seene him, neither hath knowen him.
1 John 3:7	Litle children, let no man deceiue you: he that doeth righteousnes, is righteous, as hee is righteous.
1 John 3:8	He that comitteth sinne, is of the deuil: for the deuill sinneth from the beginning: for this purpose was made manifest that Sonne of God, that he might loose the workes of the deuil.
1 John 3:9	Whosoeuer is borne of God, sinneth not: for his seede remaineth in him, neither can hee sinne, because he is borne of God.
1 John 3:10	In this are the children of God knowen, and the children of the deuil: whosoeuer doeth not righteousnesse, is not of God, neither he that loueth not his brother.
1 John 3:11	For this is the message, that ye heard from the beginning, that we should loue one another,
1 John 3:12	Not as Cain which was of that wicked one, and slewe his brother: and wherefore slewe he him? because his owne workes were euill, and his brothers good.
1 John 3:13	Marueile not, my brethren, though this world hate you.
1 John 3:14	We know that we are translated from death vnto life, because we loue the brethren: he that loueth not his brother, abideth in death.
1 John 3:15	Whosoeuer hateth his brother, is a manslayer: and ye know that no manslayer hath eternall life abiding in him.
1 John 3:16	Hereby haue we perceiued loue, that he layde downe his life for vs: therefore we ought also to lay downe our liues for the brethren.
1 John 3:17	And whosoeuer hath this worlds good, and seeth his brother haue neede, and shutteth vp his compassion from him, howe dwelleth the loue of God in him?
1 John 3:18	My litle children, let vs not loue in worde, neither in tongue onely, but in deede and in trueth.
1 John 3:19	For thereby we know that we are of the trueth, and shall before him assure our hearts.
1 John 3:20	For if our heart condemne vs, God is greater then our heart, and knoweth all things.
1 John 3:21	Beloued, if our heart condemne vs not, then haue we boldnes toward God.
1 John 3:22	And whatsoeuer we aske we receiue of him, because we keepe his commandements, and do those things which are pleasing in his sight.
1 John 3:23	This is then his commandement, That we beleeue in the Name of his Sonne Iesus Christ, and loue one another as hee gaue commandement.
1 John 3:24	For hee that keepeth his commandements, dwelleth in him, and he in him: and hereby we knowe that hee abideth in vs, euen by that Spirit which he hath giuen vs.
1 John 4:1	Dearely beloued, beleeue not euery spirit, but trie the spirits whether they are of God: for many false prophets are gone out into this worlde.
1 John 4:2	Hereby shall ye know the Spirit of God, Euery spirit which confesseth that Iesus Christ is come in the flesh, is of God.
1 John 4:3	And euery spirit that confesseth not that Iesus Christ is come in the flesh, is not of God: but this is the spirit of Antichrist, of whome ye haue heard, how that he should come, and nowe already he is in this world.
1 John 4:4	Litle children, ye are of God, and haue ouercome them: for greater is he that is in you, then he that is in this world.
1 John 4:5	They are of this worlde, therefore speake they of this world, and this world heareth them.
1 John 4:6	We are of God, he that knoweth God, heareth vs: he that is not of God, heareth vs not. Heereby knowe wee the spirit of trueth, and the spirit of errour.
1 John 4:7	Beloued, let vs loue one another: for loue commeth of God, and euery one that loueth, is borne of God, and knoweth God.
1 John 4:8	Hee that loueth not, knoweth not God: for God is loue.
1 John 4:9	Herein was that loue of God made manifest amongst vs, because God sent that his onely begotten sonne into this world, that we might liue through him.
1 John 4:10	Herein is that loue, not that we loued God, but that he loued vs, and sent his Sonne to be a reconciliation for our sinnes.
1 John 4:11	Beloued, if God so loued vs, we ought also to loue one another.
1 John 4:12	No man hath seene God at any time. If we loue one another, God dwelleth in vs, and his loue is perfect in vs.
1 John 4:13	Hereby know we, that we dwell in him, and he in vs: because he hath giuen vs of his Spirit.
1 John 4:14	And we haue seene, and doe testifie, that the Father sent that Sonne to be ye Sauiour of the world.
1 John 4:15	Whosoeuer confesseth that Iesus is the Sone of God, in him dwelleth God, and he in God.
1 John 4:16	And we haue knowen, and beleeued ye loue that God hath in vs. God is loue, and he that dwelleth in loue, dwelleth in God, and God in him.
1 John 4:17	Herein is that loue perfect in vs, that we should haue boldnes in the day of iudgement: for as he is, euen so are we in this world.
1 John 4:18	There is no feare in loue, but perfect loue casteth out feare: for feare hath painefulnesse: and he that feareth, is not perfect in loue.
1 John 4:19	We loue him, because he loued vs first.
1 John 4:20	If any man say, I loue God, and hate his brother, he is a liar: for how can he that loueth not his brother whom he hath seene, loue God whom he hath not seene?
1 John 4:21	And this commandement haue we of him, that he that loueth God, should loue his brother also.
1 John 5:1	Whosoeuer beleeueth that Iesus is that Christ, is borne of God: and euery one that loueth him, which begate, loueth him also which is begotten of him.
1 John 5:2	In this we know that we loue the children of God, when we loue God, and keepe his commandements.
1 John 5:3	For this is the loue of God, that we keepe his commandements: and his commandements are not burdenous.
1 John 5:4	For all that is borne of God, ouercommeth this world: and this is that victorie that hath ouercome this world, euen our faith.
1 John 5:5	Who is it that ouercommeth this world, but he which beleeueth that Iesus is that Sonne of God?
1 John 5:6	This is that Iesus Christ that came by water and blood: not by water onely, but by water and blood: and it is that Spirit, that beareth witnesse: for that Spirit is trueth.
1 John 5:7	For there are three, which beare recorde in heauen, the Father, the Worde, and the holy Ghost: and these three are one.
1 John 5:8	And there are three, which beare record in the earth, the spirit, and the water and the blood: and these three agree in one.
1 John 5:9	If we receiue the witnesse of men, the witnesse of God is greater: for this is the witnesse of God, which he testified of his Sonne.
1 John 5:10	He that beleeueth in that Sonne of God, hath the witnes in himselfe: he that beleeueth not God, hath made him a lyar, because he beleeued not ye record, that God witnessed of that his Sonne.
1 John 5:11	And this is that record, to wit, that God hath giuen vnto vs eternall life, and this life is in that his Sonne.
1 John 5:12	He that hath that Sonne, hath that life: and he that hath not that Sonne of God, hath not that life.
1 John 5:13	These things haue I written vnto you, that beleeue in the Name of that Sonne of God, that ye may knowe that ye haue eternall life, and that ye may beleeue in the Name of that Sonne of God.
1 John 5:14	And this is that assurance, that we haue in him, that if we aske any thing according to his will, he heareth vs.
1 John 5:15	And if we know that he heareth vs, whatsoeuer we aske, we know that we haue the petitions, that we haue desired of him.
1 John 5:16	If any man see his brother sinne a sinne that is not vnto death, let him aske, and he shall giue him life for them that sinne not vnto death. There is a sinne vnto death: I say not that thou shouldest pray for it.
1 John 5:17	All vnrighteousnesse is sinne, but there is a sinne not vnto death.
1 John 5:18	We know that whosoeuer is borne of God, sinneth not: but he that is begotten of God, keepeth himselfe, and that wicked one toucheth him not.
1 John 5:19	We knowe that we are of God, and this whole world lieth in wickednesse.
1 John 5:20	But we know that that Sone of God is come, and hath giue vs a mind to know him, which is true: and we are in him that is true, that is, in that his Sone Iesus Christ: this same is that very God, and that eternal life.
1 John 5:21	Litle children, keepe your selues from idoles, Amen.

===== BOOK: 1 Kings =====
1 Kings 1:1	Now when King Dauid was olde, and striken in yeeres, they couered him with clothes, but no heate came vnto him.
1 Kings 1:2	Wherefore his seruants saide vnto him, Let there be sought for my lord ye King a yong virgin, and let her stand before the king, and cherish him: and let her lie in thy bosome, that my lord the King may get heate.
1 Kings 1:3	So they sought for a faire young maide thoroughout all the coastes of Israel, and founde one Abishag a Shunamite, and brought her to the king.
1 Kings 1:4	And the maid was exceeding faire, and cherished the king, and ministred to him, but the King knew her not.
1 Kings 1:5	Then Adoniiah the sonne of Haggith exalted himselfe, saying, I will be king. And he gate him charets and horsemen, and fiftie men to run before him.
1 Kings 1:6	And his father would not displease him from his childehood, to say, Why hast thou done so? And hee was a very goodly man, and his mother bare him next after Absalom.
1 Kings 1:7	And he tooke counsel of Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah, and of Abiathar the Priest: and they helped forward Adoniiah.
1 Kings 1:8	But Zadok the Priest, and Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada, and Nathan the Prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the men of might, which were with Dauid, were not with Adoniiah.
1 Kings 1:9	Then Adoniiah sacrificed sheepe and oxen, and fat cattel by the stone of Zoheleth, which is by En-rogel, and called all his brethren the kings sonnes, and al the men of Iudah ye Kings seruants,
1 Kings 1:10	But Nathan the Prophet, and Benaiah, and the mightie men, and Salomon his brother hee called not.
1 Kings 1:11	Wherefore Nathan spake vnto Bath-sheba the mother of Salomon, saying, Hast thou not heard, that Adoniiah ye sonne of Haggith doeth reigne, and Dauid our lord knoweth it not?
1 Kings 1:12	Now therefore come, and I will now giue thee counsell, howe to saue thine owne life, and the life of thy sonne Salomon.
1 Kings 1:13	Go, and get thee in vnto King Dauid, and say vnto him, Didest not thou, my lorde, O King, sweare vnto thine handmaide, saying, Assuredly Salomon thy sonne shall reigne after me, and he shall sit vpon my throne? why is then Adoniiah King?
1 Kings 1:14	Behold, while thou yet talkest there with the King, I also will come in after thee, and confirme thy wordes.
1 Kings 1:15	So Bath-sheba went in vnto the King into the chamber, and the King was verie olde, and Abishag the Shunammite ministred vnto ye King.
1 Kings 1:16	And Bath-sheba bowed and made obeisance vnto the King. And the King saide, What is thy matter?
1 Kings 1:17	And shee answered him, My lorde, thou swarest by the Lord thy God vnto thine handmaide, saying, Assuredly Salomon thy sonne shall reigne after me, and he shall sit vpon my throne.
1 Kings 1:18	And beholde, nowe is Adoniiah king, and now, my lord, O King, thou knowest it not.
1 Kings 1:19	And he hath offred many oxen, and fatte cattel, and sheepe, and hath called all the sonnes of the King, and Abiathar the Priest, and Ioab the captaine of the hoste: but Salomon thy seruant hath he not bidden.
1 Kings 1:20	And thou, my lorde, O King, knowest that the eyes of all Israel are on thee, that thou shouldest tell them, who shoulde sit on the throne of my lord the King after him.
1 Kings 1:21	For els when my lord the King shall sleepe with his fathers, I and my sonne Salomon shalbe reputed vile.
1 Kings 1:22	And lo, while she yet talked with the King, Nathan also the Prophet came in.
1 Kings 1:23	And they tolde the King, saying, Beholde, Nathan the Prophet. And when he was come in to the King, hee made obeisance before the King vpon his face to the ground.
1 Kings 1:24	And Nathan saide, My lorde, O King, hast thou said, Adoniiah shall reigne after mee, and he shall sit vpon my throne?
1 Kings 1:25	For hee is gone downe this day, and hath slaine many oxen, and fat cattel, and sheepe, and hath called al the Kings sonnes, and the captaines of the hoste, and Abiathar the Priest: and behold, they eate and drinke before him, and say, God saue King Adoniiah.
1 Kings 1:26	But me thy seruant, and Zadok the Priest, and Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada, and thy seruant Salomon hath he not called.
1 Kings 1:27	Is this thing done by my lord the King, and thou hast not shewed it vnto thy seruant, who should sitte on the throne of my lorde the King after him?
1 Kings 1:28	Then King Dauid answered, and saide, Call me Bath-sheba. And shee came into ye Kings presence, and stoode before the King.
1 Kings 1:29	And the King sware, saying, As the Lord liueth, who hath redeemed my soule out of all aduersitie,
1 Kings 1:30	That as I sware vnto thee by the Lord God of Israel, saying, Assuredly Salomon thy sonne shall reigne after me, and hee shall sit vpon my throne in my place, so will I certainely doe this day.
1 Kings 1:31	Then Bath-sheba bowed her face to the earth, and did reuerence vnto the King, and said, God saue my lord King Dauid for euer.
1 Kings 1:32	And King Dauid saide, Call mee Zadok the Priest, and Nathan the Prophet, and Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada. And they came before the King.
1 Kings 1:33	Then the King said vnto them, Take with you the seruants of your lorde, and cause Salomon my sonne to ride vpon mine owne mule, and carie him downe to Gihon.
1 Kings 1:34	And let Zadok the Priest and Nathan the Prophet anoint him there King ouer Israel, and blowe ye the trumpet, and say, God saue king Salomon.
1 Kings 1:35	Then come vp after him, that hee may come and sit vpon my throne: and hee shall bee King in my steade: for I haue appointed him to be prince ouer Israel and ouer Iudah.
1 Kings 1:36	Then Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada answered the King, and said, So be it, and the Lord God of my lord the King ratifie it.
1 Kings 1:37	As the Lord hath bene with my lorde the King, so be he with Salomon, and exalt his throne aboue the throne of my lorde king Dauid.
1 Kings 1:38	So Zadok the Priest, and Nathan the Prophet, and Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites went downe and caused Salomon to ride vpon king Dauids mule, and brought him to Gihon.
1 Kings 1:39	And Zadok the Priest tooke an horne of oyle out of the Tabernacle, and anointed Salomon: and they blewe the trumpet, and all the people said, God saue king Salomon.
1 Kings 1:40	And all the people came vp after him, and the people piped with pipes, and reioyced with great ioye, so that the earth rang with the sound of them.
1 Kings 1:41	And Adoniiah and all the ghestes that were with him, heard it: (and they had made an ende of eating) and when Ioab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, What meaneth this noise and vprore in the citie?
1 Kings 1:42	And as he yet spake, beholde, Ionathan the sonne of Abiathar the Priest came: and Adoniiah said, Come in: for thou art a worthie man, and bringest good tidings.
1 Kings 1:43	And Ionathan answered, and said to Adoniiah, Verely our lord King Dauid hath made Salomon King.
1 Kings 1:44	And the King hath sent with him Zadok the Priest, and Nathan the Prophet, and Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada, and the Cherethites, and the Pelethites, and they haue caused him to ride vpon the Kings mule.
1 Kings 1:45	And Zadok the Priest, and Nathan ye Prophet haue anointed him King in Gihon: and they are gone vp from thence with ioy, and the citie is moued: this is the noise that ye haue heard.
1 Kings 1:46	And Salomon also sitteth on the throne of the kingdome.
1 Kings 1:47	And moreouer the Kings seruantes came to blesse our lord King Dauid, saying, God make the name of Salomon more famous then thy name, and exalt his throne aboue thy throne: therefore the King worshipped vpon the bed.
1 Kings 1:48	And thus sayd the King also, Blessed bee the Lord God of Israel, who hath made one to sit on my throne this day, euen in my sight.
1 Kings 1:49	Then all the ghestes that were with Adonijah, were afraide, and rose vp, and went euery man his way.
1 Kings 1:50	And Adonijah fearing the presence of Salomon, arose and went, and tooke holde on the hornes of the altar.
1 Kings 1:51	And one tolde Salomon, saying, Beholde, Adonijah doeth feare King Salomon: for lo, he hath caught holde on the hornes of the altar, saying, Let King Salomon sweare vnto me this day, that he will not slay his seruant with the sword.
1 Kings 1:52	Then Salomon sayd, If he will shewe him selfe a worthy man, there shall not an heare of him fall to the earth, but if wickednes be found in him, he shall dye.
1 Kings 1:53	Then King Salomon sent, and they brought him from the altar, and he came and did obeisance vnto King Salomon. And Salomon sayde vnto him, Go to thine house.
1 Kings 2:1	Then the dayes of Dauid drewe neere that he should die, and hee charged Salomon his sonne, saying,
1 Kings 2:2	I go the way of all the earth: be strong therefore, and shew thy selfe a man,
1 Kings 2:3	And take heede to the charge of the Lord thy God, to walke in his wayes, and keepe his statutes, and his commandements, and his iudgements, and his testimonies, as it is written in the Law of Moses, that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and in euery thing whereunto thou turnest thee,
1 Kings 2:4	That the Lord may confirme his worde which hee spake vnto me, saying, If thy sonnes take heede to their way, that they walke before me in trueth, with all their hearts, and with all their soules, thou shalt not (sayd he) want one of thy posteritie vpon the throne of Israel.
1 Kings 2:5	Thou knowest also what Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah did to me, and what he did to the two captaines of the hostes of Israel, vnto Abner the sonne of Ner, and vnto Amasa the sonne of Iether: whome he slewe, and shed blood of battell in peace, and put the blood of warre vpon his girdle that was about his loynes, and in his shooes that were on his feete.
1 Kings 2:6	Doe therefore according to thy wisdome, and let thou not his hoare head go downe to the graue in peace.
1 Kings 2:7	But shew kindnes vnto the sonnes of Barzillai the Gileadite, and let them be among them that eate at thy table: for so they came to me when I fled from Absalom thy brother.
1 Kings 2:8	And beholde, with thee is Shimei the sonne of Gera, the sonne of Iemini, of Bahurim, which cursed mee with an horrible curse in the day when I went to Mahanaim: but hee came downe to meete me at Iorden, and I sware to him by the Lord, saying, I will not slay thee with the sword.
1 Kings 2:9	But thou shalt not count him innocent: for thou art a wise man, and knowest what thou oughtest to doe vnto him: therefore thou shalt cause his hoare head to goe downe to the graue with blood.
1 Kings 2:10	So Dauid slept with his fathers, and was buried in the citie of Dauid.
1 Kings 2:11	And the dayes which Dauid reigned vpon Israel, were fourtie yeeres: seuen yeeres reigned he in Hebron, and thirtie and three yeeres reigned he in Ierusalem.
1 Kings 2:12	Then sate Salomon vpon the throne of Dauid his father, and his kingdome was stablished mightily.
1 Kings 2:13	And Adonijah the sonne of Haggith came to Bath-sheba the mother of Salomon: and she saide, Commest thou peaceably? And hee said, Yea.
1 Kings 2:14	He said moreouer, I haue a sute vnto thee. And she sayd, Say on.
1 Kings 2:15	Then he said, Thou knowest that the kingdome was mine, and that all Israel set their faces on me, that I should reigne: howbeit the kingdome is turned away, and is my brothers: for it came to him by the Lord.
1 Kings 2:16	Nowe therefore I aske thee one request, refuse me not. And she said vnto him, Say on.
1 Kings 2:17	And he sayd, Speake, I pray thee, vnto Salomon ye King, (for he will not say thee nay) that he giue me Abishag the Shunammite to wife.
1 Kings 2:18	And Bath-sheba sayd, Well, I will speake for thee vnto the King.
1 Kings 2:19	Bath-sheba therefore went vnto King Salomon, to speake vnto him for Adonijah: and the King rose to meete her, and bowed himselfe vnto her, and sate downe on his throne: and he caused a seate to be set for the Kings mother, and she sate at his right hand.
1 Kings 2:20	Then she sayd, I desire a small request of thee, say me not nay. Then the King sayde vnto her, Aske on, my mother: for I will not say thee nay.
1 Kings 2:21	She sayd then, Let Abishag the Shunammite be giuen to Adonijah thy brother to wife.
1 Kings 2:22	But King Salomon answered and sayd vnto his mother, And why doest thou aske Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? aske for him the kingdome also: for he is mine elder brother, and hath for him both Abiathar the Priest, and Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah.
1 Kings 2:23	Then King Salomon sware by the Lord, saying, God doe so to me and more also, if Adoniiah hath not spoken this worde against his owne life.
1 Kings 2:24	Now therefore as ye Lord liueth, who hath established me, and set me on the throne of Dauid my father, who also hath made me an house, as he promised, Adoniiah shall surely die this day.
1 Kings 2:25	And King Salomon sent by the hand of Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada, and hee smote him that he dyed.
1 Kings 2:26	Then the King sayd vnto Abiathar the Priest, Go to Anathoth vnto thine owne fieldes: for thou art worthy of death: but I will not this day kill thee, because thou barest the Arke of the Lord God before Dauid my father, and because thou hast suffered in all, wherein my father hath bene afflicted.
1 Kings 2:27	So Salomon cast out Abiathar from being Priest vnto the Lord, that he might fulfill the wordes of the Lord, which he spake against the house of Eli in Shiloh.
1 Kings 2:28	Then tidings came to Ioab: (for Ioab had turned after Adoniiah, but he turned not after Absalom) and Ioab fled vnto the Tabernacle of the Lord, and caught hold on the hornes of the altar.
1 Kings 2:29	And it was tolde king Salomon, that Ioab was fled vnto the Tabernacle of the Lord, and beholde, he is by the altar. Then Salomon sent Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada, saying, Goe, fall vpon him.
1 Kings 2:30	And Benaiah came to the Tabernacle of the Lord, and sayd vnto him, Thus sayth the King, Come out. And he sayde, Nay, but I will die here. Then Benaiah brought the King worde againe, saying, Thus sayd Ioab, and thus he answered me.
1 Kings 2:31	And the King sayde vnto him, Doe as he hath sayd, and smite him, and bury him, that thou mayest take away the blood, which Ioab shed causelesse, from me and from the house of my father.
1 Kings 2:32	And the Lord shall bring his blood vpon his owne head: for he smote two men more righteous and better then he, and slew them with the sword, and my father Dauid knew not: to wit, Abner the sonne of Ner, captaine of the hoste of Israel, and Amasa the sonne of Iether captaine of the hoste of Iudah.
1 Kings 2:33	Their blood shall therefore returne vpon the head of Ioab, and on the head of his seede for euer: but vpon Dauid, and vpon his seede, and vpon his house, and vpon his throne shall there be peace for euer from the Lord.
1 Kings 2:34	So Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada went vp, and smote him, and slewe him, and he was buryed in his owne house in the wildernesse.
1 Kings 2:35	And the King put Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada in his roume ouer the hoste: and the King set Zadok the Priest in the roume of Abiathar.
1 Kings 2:36	Afterwarde the King sent, and called Shimei, and sayde vnto him, Buylde thee an house in Ierusalem, and dwell there, and depart not thence any whither.
1 Kings 2:37	For that day that thou goest out, and passest ouer the riuer of Kidron, knowe assuredly, that thou shalt dye the death: thy blood shall be vpon thine owne head.
1 Kings 2:38	And Shimei sayd vnto the King, The thing is good: as my lord the King hath sayd, so wil thy seruant doe. So Shimei dwelt in Ierusalem many dayes.
1 Kings 2:39	And after three yeres two of the seruants of Shimei fled away vnto Achish sonne of Maachah King of Gath: and they tolde Shimei, saying, Behold, thy seruants be in Gath.
1 Kings 2:40	And Shimei arose, and sadled his asse, and went to Gath to Achish, to seeke his seruantes: and Shimei went, and brought his seruants from Gath.
1 Kings 2:41	And it was tolde Salomon, that Shimei had gone from Ierusalem to Gath, and was come againe.
1 Kings 2:42	And the King sent and called Shimei, and sayde vnto him, Did I not make thee to sweare by the Lord, and protested vnto thee, saying, That day that thou goest out, and walkest any whither, knowe assuredly that thou shalt dye the death? And thou saydest vnto mee, The thing is good, that I haue heard.
1 Kings 2:43	Why then hast thou not kept the othe of the Lord, and the commandement wherewith I charged thee?
1 Kings 2:44	The King sayde also to Shimei, Thou knowest all the wickednes whereunto thine heart is priuie, that thou diddest to Dauid my father: the Lord therefore shall bring thy wickednesse vpon thine owne head.
1 Kings 2:45	And let King Salomon be blessed, and the throne of Dauid stablished before the Lord for euer.
1 Kings 2:46	So the King comanded Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada: who went out and smote him that he dyed. And the kingdome was established in the hand of Salomon.
1 Kings 3:1	Salomon then made affinitie with Pharaoh King of Egypt, and tooke Pharaohs daughter, and brought her into the citie of Dauid, vntill hee had made an ende of buylding his owne house, and the house of the Lord, and the wall of Ierusalem round about.
1 Kings 3:2	Only the people sacrificed in the hie places, because there was no house buylt vnto the name of the Lord, vntill those dayes.
1 Kings 3:3	And Salomon loued the Lord, walking in the ordinances of Dauid his father: onely he sacrificed and offred incense in the hie places.
1 Kings 3:4	And the King went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the chiefe hie place: a thousand burnt offrings did Salomon offer vpon that altar.
1 Kings 3:5	In Gibeon the Lord appeared to Salomon in a dreame by night: and God sayd, Aske what I shall giue thee.
1 Kings 3:6	And Salomon sayd, Thou hast shewed vnto thy seruant Dauid my father great mercie, when hee walked before thee in trueth, and in righteousnesse, and in vprightnes of heart with thee: and thou hast kept for him this great mercie, and hast giuen him a sonne, to sit on his throne, as appeareth this day.
1 Kings 3:7	And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy seruant King in steade of Dauid my father: and I am but a yong childe, and know not howe to go out and in.
1 Kings 3:8	And thy seruant is in the mids of thy people, which thou hast chosen, euen a great people which cannot be told nor nobred for multitude.
1 Kings 3:9	Giue therefore vnto thy seruant an vnderstanding heart, to iudge thy people, that I may discerne betweene good and bad: for who is able to iudge this thy mightie people?
1 Kings 3:10	And this pleased the Lord well, that Salomon had desired this thing.
1 Kings 3:11	And God sayde vnto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thy selfe long life, neyther hast asked riches for thy selfe, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies, but hast asked for thy selfe vnderstanding to heare iudgement,
1 Kings 3:12	Beholde, I haue done according to thy wordes: lo, I haue giuen thee a wise and an vnderstanding heart, so that there hath bene none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall arise the like vnto thee.
1 Kings 3:13	And I haue also giuen thee that, which thou hast not asked, both riches and honour, so that among the Kings there shall be none like vnto thee all thy dayes.
1 Kings 3:14	And if thou wilt walke in my wayes, to keepe mine ordinances and my commandements, as thy father Dauid did walke, I will prolong thy dayes.
1 Kings 3:15	And when Salomon awoke, behold, it was a dreame, and he came to Ierusalem, and stoode before the Arke of the couenant of the Lord, and offred burnt offrings and made peace offrings, and made a feast to all his seruants.
1 Kings 3:16	Then came two harlots vnto the King, and stoode before him.
1 Kings 3:17	And the one woman sayd, Oh my lorde, I and this woman dwell in one house, and I was deliuered of a childe with her in the house.
1 Kings 3:18	And the third day after that I was deliuered, this woman was deliuered also: and we were in the house together: no stranger was with vs in the house, saue we twaine.
1 Kings 3:19	And this womans sonne died in the night: for she ouerlay him.
1 Kings 3:20	And she rose at midnight, and tooke my sonne from my side, while thine handmaide slept, and layde him in her bosome, and layde her dead sonne in my bosome.
1 Kings 3:21	And when I rose in the morning to giue my sonne sucke, beholde, he was dead: and when I had well considered him in the morning, beholde, it was not my sonne, whom I had borne.
1 Kings 3:22	Then the other woman sayd, Nay, but my sonne liueth, and thy sonne is dead. Againe she sayde, No, but thy sonne is dead, and mine aliue: thus they spake before the King.
1 Kings 3:23	Then sayde the King, She sayth, This that liueth is my sonne, and the dead is thy sonne: and the other sayth, Nay, but the dead is thy sonne, and the liuing is my sonne.
1 Kings 3:24	Then the King said, Bring me a sworde: and they brought out a sworde before the King.
1 Kings 3:25	And the King sayde, Deuide ye the liuing child in twaine, and giue the one halfe to the one, and the other halfe to the other.
1 Kings 3:26	Then spake the woman, whose the liuing child was, vnto the King, for her compassion was kindled toward her sonne, and she sayde, Oh my lorde, giue her the liuing childe, and slay him not: but the other sayde, Let it be neither mine nor thine, but deuide it.
1 Kings 3:27	Then the King answered, and sayde, Giue her the liuing childe, and slay him not: this is his mother.
1 Kings 3:28	And all Israel heard the iudgement, which the King had iudged, and they feared the King: for they sawe that the wisedome of God was in him to doe iustice.
1 Kings 4:1	And King Salomon was King ouer all Israel.
1 Kings 4:2	And these were his princes, Azariah the sonne of Zadok the Priest,
1 Kings 4:3	Elihoreph and Ahiah the sonnes of Shisha scribes, Iehoshaphat the sonne of Ahilud, the recorder,
1 Kings 4:4	And Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada was ouer the hoste, and Zadok and Abiathar Priests,
1 Kings 4:5	And Azariah the sonne of Nathan was ouer the officers, and Zabud the sonne of Nathan Priest was the Kings friend,
1 Kings 4:6	And Ahishar was ouer the houshold: and Adoniram the sonne of Abda was ouer the tribute.
1 Kings 4:7	And Salomon had twelue officers ouer all Israel, which prouided vitailes for the King and his housholde: eche man had a moneth in the yeere to prouide vitailes.
1 Kings 4:8	And these are their names: the sonne of Hur in mount Ephraim:
1 Kings 4:9	The sonne of Dekar in Makaz, and in Shaalbim and Beth-shemesh, and Elon and Beth-hanan:
1 Kings 4:10	The sonne of Hesed in Aruboth, to whom perteined Sochoh, and all the land of Hepher:
1 Kings 4:11	The sonne of Abinadab in all the region of Dor, which had Taphath the daughter of Salomon to wife.
1 Kings 4:12	Baana the sonne of Ahilud in Taanach, and Megiddo, and in all Beth-shean, which is by Zartanah beneath Izreel, from Beth-shean to Abelmeholah, eue til beyond ouer against Iokmeam:
1 Kings 4:13	The sonne of Geber in Ramoth Gilead, and his were the townes of Iair, the sonne of Manasseh, which are in Gilead, and vnder him was the region of Argob, which is in Bashan: threescore great cities with walles and barres of brasse.
1 Kings 4:14	Ahinadab the sonne of Iddo had to Mahanaim:
1 Kings 4:15	Ahimaaz in Naphtali, and he tooke Basmath the daughter of Salomon to wife:
1 Kings 4:16	Baanah the sonne of Hushai in Asher and in Aloth:
1 Kings 4:17	Iehoshaphat the sonne of Paruah in Issachar.
1 Kings 4:18	Shimei the sonne of Elah in Beniamin:
1 Kings 4:19	Geber the sonne of Vri in the countrey of Gilead, the land of Sihon King of the Amorites, and of Og King of Bashan, and was officer alone in the land.
1 Kings 4:20	Iudah and Israel were many, as the sand of the sea in number, eating, drinking, and making merry.
1 Kings 4:21	And Salomon reigned ouer all kingdomes, from the Riuer vnto the lande of the Philistims, and vnto the border of Egypt, and they brought presents, and serued Salomon all the dayes of his life.
1 Kings 4:22	And Salomons vitailes for one day were thirtie measures of fine floure, and threescore measures of meale:
1 Kings 4:23	Ten fat oxen, and twentie oxen of the pastures, and an hundreth sheepe, beside hartes, and buckes, and bugles, and fat foule.
1 Kings 4:24	For he ruled in all the region on the other side of the Riuer, from Tiphsah euen vnto Azzah, ouer all the Kings on the other side the Riuer: and he had peace round about him on euery side.
1 Kings 4:25	And Iudah and Israel dwelt without feare, euery man vnder his vine, and vnder his fig tree, from Dan, euen to Beer-sheba, all the dayes of Salomon.
1 Kings 4:26	And Salomon had fourtie thousande stalles of horses for his charets, and twelue thousand horsemen.
1 Kings 4:27	And these officers prouided vitaile for king Salomon, and for all that came to King Salomons table, euery man his moneth, and they suffred to lacke nothing.
1 Kings 4:28	Barley also and strawe for the horses and mules brought they vnto the place where the officers were, euery man according to his charge.
1 Kings 4:29	And God gaue Salomon wisdome and vnderstanding exceeding much, and a large heart, euen as the sand that is on the sea shore,
1 Kings 4:30	And Salomons wisdome excelled the wisedome of all the children of the East and all the wisedome of Egypt.
1 Kings 4:31	For he was wiser then any man: yea, then were Ethan the Ezrahite, the Heman, then Chalcol, then Darda the sonnes of Mahol: and he was famous throughout all nations round about.
1 Kings 4:32	And Salomon spake three thousand prouerbs: and his songs were a thousand and fiue.
1 Kings 4:33	And he spake of trees, from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon, euen vnto the hyssope that springeth out of the wall: he spake also of beasts, and of foules, and of creeping thinges, and of fishes.
1 Kings 4:34	And there came of all people to heare the wisedome of Salomon, from all Kings of the earth, which had heard of his wisedome.
1 Kings 5:1	And Hiram King of Tyrus sent his seruants vnto Salomon, (for he had heard, that they had anoynted him King in the roume of his father) because Hiram had euer loued Dauid.
1 Kings 5:2	Also Salomon sent to Hiram, saying,
1 Kings 5:3	Thou knowest that Dauid my father could not build an house vnto the Name of the Lord his God, for the warres which were about him on euery side, vntill the Lord had put them vnder the soles of his feete.
1 Kings 5:4	But now the Lord my God hath giuen me rest on euery side, so that there is neither aduersarie, nor euill to resist.
1 Kings 5:5	And beholde, I purpose to build an house vnto ye Name of the Lord my God, as the Lord spake vnto Dauid my father, saying, Thy sonne, whom I wil set vpon thy throne for thee, he shall build an house vnto my Name.
1 Kings 5:6	Now therefore commaund, that they hewe me cedar trees out of Lebanon, and my seruants shall be with thy seruants, and vnto thee will I giue the hire for thy seruants, according to all that thou shalt appoynt: for thou knowest that there are none among vs, that can hewe timber like vnto the Sidonians.
1 Kings 5:7	And when Hiram heard the wordes of Salomon, he reioyced greatly, and sayde, Blessed be the Lord this day, which hath giuen vnto Dauid a wise sonne ouer this mightie people.
1 Kings 5:8	And Hiram sent to Salomon, saying, I haue considered the things, for the which thou sentest vnto me, and will accomplish all thy desire, concerning the cedar trees and firre trees.
1 Kings 5:9	My seruants shall bring them downe from Lebanon to the sea: and I will conuey them by sea in raftes vnto the place that thou shalt shew me, and wil cause them to be discharged there, and thou shalt receiue them: nowe thou shalt doe mee a pleasure to minister foode for my familie.
1 Kings 5:10	So Hiram gaue Salomon cedar trees and firre trees, euen his full desire.
1 Kings 5:11	And Salomon gaue Hiram twentie thousand measures of wheate for foode to his householde, and twentie measures of beaten oyle. Thus much gaue Salomon to Hiram yere by yere.
1 Kings 5:12	And the Lord gaue Salomon wisedome as he promised him. And there was peace betweene Hiram and Salomon, and they two made a couenant.
1 Kings 5:13	And King Salomon raised a summe out of all Israel, and the summe was thirtie thousand men:
1 Kings 5:14	Whome he sent to Lebanon, ten thousand a moneth by course: they were a moneth in Lebanon, and two moneths at home. And Adoniram was ouer the summe.
1 Kings 5:15	And Salomon had seuentie thousand that bare burdens, and fourescore thousand masons in the mountaine,
1 Kings 5:16	Besides the princes, whome Salomon appoynted ouer the worke, euen three thousande and three hundreth, which ruled the people that wrought in the worke.
1 Kings 5:17	And the King commanded them, and they brought great stones and costly stones to make the foundation of the house, euen hewed stones.
1 Kings 5:18	And Salomons workemen, and the workemen of Hiram, and the masons hewed and prepared timber and stones for the buylding of the house.
1 Kings 6:1	And in the foure hundreth and foure score yeere (after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt) and in the fourth yere of the reigne of Salomon ouer Israel, in the moneth Zif, (which is the second moneth) he built the house of the Lord.
1 Kings 6:2	And the house which King Salomon built for the Lord, was three score cubites long, and twentie broade, and thirtie cubites hie.
1 Kings 6:3	And the porch before the Temple of the house was twentie cubites long according to the breadth of the house, and ten cubites broade before the house.
1 Kings 6:4	And in the house he made windowes, broad without, and narrowe within.
1 Kings 6:5	And by the wall of the house hee made galleries round about, euen by the walles of the house round about the Temple and the oracle, and made chambers round about.
1 Kings 6:6	The nethermost gallerie was fiue cubites broade, and the middlemost sixe cubites broade, and the third seuen cubites broade: for he made restes round about without the house, that the beames should not be fastened in the walles of the house.
1 Kings 6:7	And when the house was built, it was built of stone perfite, before it was brought, so that there was neither hammer, nor axe, nor any toole of yron heard in the house, while it was in building.
1 Kings 6:8	The doore of the middle chamber was in the right side of the house, and men went vp with winding stayres into the middlemost, and out of the middlemost into the third.
1 Kings 6:9	So he built the house and finished it, and sieled the house being vawted with sieling of cedar trees.
1 Kings 6:10	And he built the galleries vpon al the wall of the house of fiue cubites height, and they were ioyned to the house with beames of cedar.
1 Kings 6:11	And the worde of the Lord came to Salomon, saying,
1 Kings 6:12	Cocerning this house which thou buildest, if thou wilt walke in mine ordinances, and execute my iudgements, and keepe al my commadements, to walke in them, then will I performe vnto thee my promise, which I promised to Dauid thy father.
1 Kings 6:13	And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and wil not forsake my people Israel.
1 Kings 6:14	So Salomon built the house and finished it,
1 Kings 6:15	And built the walles of the house within, with boards of cedar tree from the pauement of the house vnto the walles of the sieling, and within he couered them with wood, and couered the floore of the house with planks of firre.
1 Kings 6:16	And he built twentie cubites in the sides of the house with boards of cedar, from the floore to the walles, and he prepared a place within it for the oracle, euen the most holy place.
1 Kings 6:17	But the house, that is, the Temple before it, was fourtie cubites long.
1 Kings 6:18	And the cedar of the house within was carued with knops, and grauen with floures: all was cedar, so that no stone was seene.
1 Kings 6:19	Also he prepared the place of the oracle in the mids of the house within, to set the Arke of the couenant of the Lord there.
1 Kings 6:20	And the place of the oracle within was twentie cubites long, and twentie cubites broad, and twentie cubites hie, and hee couered it with pure golde, and couered the altar with cedar.
1 Kings 6:21	So Salomon couered the house within with pure golde: and he shut the place of the oracle with chaines of gold, and couered it with golde.
1 Kings 6:22	And he ouerlayde all the house with gold, vntill all the house was made perfite. also he couered the whole altar, that was before the oracle, with golde.
1 Kings 6:23	And within the oracle he made two Cherubims of oliue tree, ten cubites hie.
1 Kings 6:24	The wing also of the one Cherub was fiue cubites, and the wing of the other Cherub was fiue cubites: from the vttermost part of one of his wings vnto the vttermost part of the other of his wings, were ten cubites.
1 Kings 6:25	Also the other Cherub was of ten cubites: both the Cherubims were of one measure and one sise.
1 Kings 6:26	For the height of the one Cherub was ten cubits, and so was the other Cherub.
1 Kings 6:27	And he put the Cherubims within the inner house, and the Cherubims stretched out their wings, so that the wing of the one touched the one wall, and the wing of the other Cherub touched the other wall: and their other wings touched one another in the middes of the house.
1 Kings 6:28	And he ouerlaied the Cherubims with golde.
1 Kings 6:29	And he carued all the walles of the house round about with grauen figures of Cherubims and of Palmetrees, and grauen flowres within and without.
1 Kings 6:30	And the floore of the house hee couered with golde within and without.
1 Kings 6:31	And in the entring of the oracle he made two doores of oliue tree: and the vpper post and side postes were fiue square.
1 Kings 6:32	The two doores also were of oliue tree, and he graued them with grauing of Cherubims and palme trees, and grauen floures, and couered them with golde, and layed thin golde vpon the Cherubims and vpon the palme trees.
1 Kings 6:33	And so made he for the doore of the Temple, postes of oliue tree foure square.
1 Kings 6:34	But the two doores were of firre tree, the two sides of the one doore were round, and the two sides of the other doore were round.
1 Kings 6:35	And he graued Cherubims, and palme trees, and carued floures and couered the carued worke with golde, finely wrought.
1 Kings 6:36	And hee built the court within with three rowes of hewed stone, and one rowe of beames of cedar.
1 Kings 6:37	In the fourth yeere was the foundation of the house of the Lord layed in the moneth of Zif:
1 Kings 6:38	And in the eleuenth yeere in the moneth of Bul, (which is the eight moneth) hee finished the house with all the furniture thereof, and in euery point: so was he seuen yeere in building it.
1 Kings 7:1	Bvt Salomon was building his owne house thirteene yeeres, and finished all his house.
1 Kings 7:2	He built also an house called the forest of Lebanon, an hundreth cubites long, and fiftie cubites broad, and thirtie cubites hie, vpon foure rowes of cedar pillars, and cedar beames were layed vpon the pillars.
1 Kings 7:3	And it was couered aboue with cedar vpon the beames, that lay on the fourtie and fiue pillars, fifteene in a rowe.
1 Kings 7:4	And the windowes were in three rowes, and windowe was against windowe in three rankes.
1 Kings 7:5	And all the doores, and the side postes with the windowes were foure square, and windowe was ouer against windowe in three rankes.
1 Kings 7:6	And he made a porche of pillars fiftie cubites long, and thirtie cubites broade, and the porch was before them, euen before them were thirtie pillars.
1 Kings 7:7	Then he made a porch for the throne, where he iudged, euen a porch of iudgement, and it was sieled with cedar from pauement to pauement.
1 Kings 7:8	And in his house, where he dwelt, was an other hall more inwarde then the porche which was of the same worke. Also Salomon made an house for Pharaohs daughter (whom he had taken to wife) like vnto this porche.
1 Kings 7:9	All these were of costly stones, hewed by measure, and sawed with sawes within and without, from the foundation vnto the stones of an hand breadth, and on the outside to the great court.
1 Kings 7:10	And the foundation was of costly stones, and great stones, euen of stones of ten cubites, and stones of eight cubites.
1 Kings 7:11	Aboue also were costly stones, squared by rule, and boardes of cedar.
1 Kings 7:12	And the great court round about was with three rowes of hewed stones, and a rowe of cedar beames: so was it to ye inner court of the house of the Lord, and to the porche of the house.
1 Kings 7:13	Then King Salomon sent, and set one Hiram out of Tyrus.
1 Kings 7:14	He was a widowes sonne of the tribe of Naphtali, his father being a man of Tyrus, and wrought in brasse: he was full of wisedome, and vnderstanding, and knowledge to worke all maner of worke in brasse: who came to King Salomon, and wrought all his worke.
1 Kings 7:15	For he cast two pillars of brasse: ye height of a pillar was eighteene cubites, and a threede of twelue cubites did compasse either of ye pillars.
1 Kings 7:16	And he made two chapiters of molten brasse to set on the tops of the pillars: the height of one of the chapiters was fiue cubites, and the height of the other chapiter was fiue cubites.
1 Kings 7:17	He made grates like networke, and wrethen worke like chaynes for the chapiters that were on the top of the pillars, euen seuen for the one chapiter, and seuen for the other chapiter.
1 Kings 7:18	So he made the pillars and two rowes of pomegranates round about in the one grate to couer the chapiters that were vpon the top. And thus did he for the other chapiter.
1 Kings 7:19	And the chapiters that were on the toppe of the pillars were after lilye worke in ye porch, foure cubites.
1 Kings 7:20	And the chapiters vpon the two pillars had also aboue, ouer against the belly within the networke pomegranates: for two hudreth pomegranates were in the two rankes about vpon either of the chapiters.
1 Kings 7:21	And he set vp the pillars in the porche of the Temple. And when hee had set vp the right pillar, he called the name thereof Iachin: and when he had set vp the left pillar, he called the name thereof Boaz.
1 Kings 7:22	And vpon the top of the pillars was worke of lilyes: so was the workemanship of the pillars finished.
1 Kings 7:23	And he made a molten sea ten cubites wide from brim to brim, rounde in compasse, and fiue cubites hie, and a line of thirtie cubites did compasse it about.
1 Kings 7:24	And vnder the brimme of it were knoppes like wilde cucumers compassing it round about, ten in one cubite, compassing the sea round about: and the two rowes of knoppes were cast, when it was molten.
1 Kings 7:25	It stoode on twelue bulles, three looking towarde the North, and three toward the West, and three toward the South, and three towarde the East: and the sea stoode aboue vpon them, and all their hinder partes were inward.
1 Kings 7:26	It was an hand bredth thicke, and the brim thereof was like the worke of the brim of a cup with floures of lilyes: it contained two thousad Baths.
1 Kings 7:27	And he made tenne bases of brasse, one base was foure cubites long, and foure cubites broad, and three cubites hie.
1 Kings 7:28	And the worke of the bases was on this maner, They had borders, and the borders were betweene the ledges:
1 Kings 7:29	And on the borders that were betweene the ledges, were lyons, bulles and Cherubims: and vpon the ledges there was a base aboue: and beneath the lyons and bulles, were addicions made of thinne worke.
1 Kings 7:30	And euery base had foure brasen wheeles, and plates of brasse: and the foure corners had vndersetters: vnder the caldron were vndersetters molten at the side of euery addicion.
1 Kings 7:31	And the mouth of it was within the chapiter and aboue to measure by the cubite: for the mouth thereof was round made like a base, and it was a cubite and halfe a cubite: and also vpon the mouth thereof were grauen workes, whose borders were foure square, and not round.
1 Kings 7:32	And vnder the borders were foure wheeles, and the axeltrees of the wheeles ioyned to the base: and the height of a wheele was a cubite and halfe a cubite.
1 Kings 7:33	And the facion of the wheeles was like the facion of a charet wheele, their axeltrees, and their naues and their felloes, and their spokes were all molten.
1 Kings 7:34	And foure vndersetters were vpon the foure corners of one base: and the vndersetters thereof were of the base it selfe.
1 Kings 7:35	And in the toppe of the base was a rounde compasse of halfe a cubite hie round about: and vpon the toppe of the base the ledges thereof and the borders thereof were of the same.
1 Kings 7:36	And vpon the tables of the ledges thereof, and on the borders thereof he did graue Cherubims, lions and palmetrees, on the side of euery one, and addicions round about.
1 Kings 7:37	Thus made he the tenne bases, They had all one casting, one measure, and one syse.
1 Kings 7:38	Then made he ten caldrons of brasse, one caldron conteyned fourty Baths: and euery caldron was foure cubites, one caldron was vpon one base throughout the ten bases.
1 Kings 7:39	And he set the bases, fiue on the right side of the house, and fiue on the left side of the house. And he set the sea on the right side of the house Eastward toward the South.
1 Kings 7:40	And Hiram made caldrons, and besomes, and basens, and Hiram finished all the worke that he made to King Salomon for the house of ye Lord:
1 Kings 7:41	To wit, two pillars and two bowles of the chapiters that were on the toppe of the two pillars, and two grates to couer the two bowles of the chapiters which were vpon the toppe of the pillars,
1 Kings 7:42	And foure hundreth pomegranates for the two grates, euen two rowes of pomegranates for euery grate to couer the two bowles of the chapiters, that were vpon the pillars,
1 Kings 7:43	And the ten bases, and ten caldrons vpon the bases,
1 Kings 7:44	And the sea, and twelue bulles vnder that sea,
1 Kings 7:45	And pottes, and besomes and basens: and all these vessels, which Hiram made to King Salomon for the house of the Lord, were of shining brasse.
1 Kings 7:46	In the plaine of Iorden did the King cast them in clay betweene Succoth and Zarthan.
1 Kings 7:47	And Salomon left to weigh all the vessels because of the exceeding aboundance, neyther could the weight of the brasse be counted.
1 Kings 7:48	So Salomon made all the vessels that perteyned vnto the house of the Lord, the golden altar, and the golden table, whereon the shewbread was,
1 Kings 7:49	And the candlestickes, fiue at the right side, and fiue at the left, before the oracle of pure gold, and the flowres, and the lampes, and the snuffers of golde,
1 Kings 7:50	And the bowles, and the hookes, and the basens, and the spoones, and the ashpannes of pure golde, and the hinges of golde for the doores of the house within, euen for the most holy place, and for the doores of the house, to wit, of the Temple.
1 Kings 7:51	So was finished all the worke that King Salomon made for the house of the Lord, and Salomon brought in the things which Dauid his father had dedicated: the siluer and the golde and the vessels, and layed them among the treasures of the house of the Lord.
1 Kings 8:1	Then King Salomon assembled the Elders of Israel, euen all the heads of the tribes, the chiefe fathers of the children of Israel vnto him in Ierusalem, for to bring vp the Arke of the couenant of the Lord from the citie of Dauid, which is Zion.
1 Kings 8:2	And all the men of Israel assembled vnto King Salomon at the feast in the moneth of Ethanim, which is the seuenth moneth.
1 Kings 8:3	And all the Elders of Israel came and the Priests tooke the Arke.
1 Kings 8:4	They bare the Arke of the Lord, and they bare the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the Tabernacle: those did the Priestes and Leuites bring vp.
1 Kings 8:5	And King Salomon and all the Congregation of Israel, that were assembled vnto him, were with him before the Arke, offering sheepe and beeues, which could not be tolde, nor nombred for multitude.
1 Kings 8:6	So the Priestes brought the Arke of the couenant of the Lord vnto his place, into the oracle of the house, into the most holy place, euen vnder the wings of the Cherubims.
1 Kings 8:7	For ye Cherubims stretched out their wings ouer the place of the Arke, and the Cherubims couered the Arke, and the barres thereof aboue.
1 Kings 8:8	And they drewe out the barres, that the endes of the barres might appeare out of the Sanctuarie before the oracle, but they were not seene without: and there they are vnto this day.
1 Kings 8:9	Nothing was in the Arke saue the two tables of stone which Moses had put there at Horeb, where the Lord made a couenant with the children of Israel, when he brought them out of the land of Egypt.
1 Kings 8:10	And when the Priestes were come out of the Sanctuarie, the cloude filled the house of the Lord,
1 Kings 8:11	So that the Priestes could not stande to minister, because of the cloude: for the glorie of the Lord had filled the house of the Lord.
1 Kings 8:12	Then spake Salomon, The Lord said, that he woulde dwell in the darke cloude.
1 Kings 8:13	I haue built thee an house to dwell in, an habitation for thee to abide in for euer.
1 Kings 8:14	And the King turned his face, and blessed all the Congregation of Israel: for all the Congregation of Israel stoode there.
1 Kings 8:15	And he said, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, who spake with his mouth vnto Dauid my father, and hath with his hand fulfilled it, saying,
1 Kings 8:16	Since the day that I brought my people Israel out of Egypt, I chose no citie of all the tribes of Israel, to builde an house that my name might be there: but I haue chosen Dauid to be ouer my people Israel.
1 Kings 8:17	And it was in ye heart of Dauid my father to builde an house to the Name of the Lord God of Israel.
1 Kings 8:18	And the Lord said vnto Dauid my father, Where as it was in thine heart to build an house vnto my Name, thou diddest well, that thou wast so minded:
1 Kings 8:19	Neuerthelesse thou shalt not builde the house, but thy sonne that shall come out of thy loynes, he shall builde the house vnto my Name.
1 Kings 8:20	And the Lord hath made good his worde that he spake: and I am risen vp in the roume of Dauid my father, and sit on the throne of Israel, as the Lord promised, and haue built the house for the Name of the Lord God of Israel.
1 Kings 8:21	And I haue prepared therein a place for the Arke, wherein is the couenant of the Lord which he made with our fathers, whe he brought them out of the lande of Egypt.
1 Kings 8:22	Then Salomon stoode before the altar of the Lord in the sight of all the Congregation of Israel, and stretched out his handes towarde heauen,
1 Kings 8:23	And sayd, O Lord God of Israel, there is no God like thee in heauen aboue, or in the earth beneath, thou that keepest couenant and mercie with thy seruants that walke before thee with all their heart,
1 Kings 8:24	Thou that hast kept with thy seruant Dauid my father, that thou hast promised him: for thou spakest with thy mouth and hast fulfilled it with thine hande, as appeareth this day.
1 Kings 8:25	Therefore now, Lord God of Israel, keepe with thy seruant Dauid my father that thou hast promised him, saying, Thou shalt not want a man in my sight to sit vpon ye throne of Israel: so that thy childre take heed to their way, that they walke before me; as thou hast walked in my sight
1 Kings 8:26	And nowe, O God of Israel, I pray thee, let thy worde be verified, which thou spakest vnto thy seruant Dauid my father.
1 Kings 8:27	Is it true in deede that God will dwell on the earth? beholde, the heauens, and the heauens of heauens are not able to conteine thee: howe much more vnable is this house that I haue built?
1 Kings 8:28	But haue thou respect vnto the prayer of thy seruant, and to his supplication, O Lord, my God, to heare the cry and prayer which thy seruant prayeth before thee this day:
1 Kings 8:29	That thine eyes may be open toward this house, night and day, euen towarde the place whereof thou hast said, My Name shalbe there: that thou mayest hearken vnto the prayer which thy seruant prayeth in this place.
1 Kings 8:30	Heare thou therefore the supplication of thy seruant, and of thy people Israel, which pray in this place, and heare thou in the place of thine habitation, euen in heauen, and when thou hearest, haue mercie.
1 Kings 8:31	When a man shall trespasse against his neighbour, and he lay vpon him an othe to cause him to sweare, and the swearer shall come before thine altar in this house,
1 Kings 8:32	Then heare thou in heauen, and doe and iudge thy seruants, that thou condemne the wicked to bring his way vpon his head, and iustifie the righteous, to giue him according to his righteousnesse.
1 Kings 8:33	When thy people Israel shall be ouerthrowen before the enemie, because they haue sinned against thee, and turne againe to thee, and confesse thy Name, and pray and make supplication vnto thee in this house,
1 Kings 8:34	Then heare thou in heauen, and be mercifull vnto the sinne of thy people Israel, and bring them againe vnto the lande, which thou gauest vnto their fathers.
1 Kings 8:35	When heauen shalbe shut vp, and there shalbe no raine because they haue sinned against thee, and shall pray in this place, and confesse thy Name, and turne from their sinne, when thou doest afflict them,
1 Kings 8:36	Then heare thou in heauen, and pardon the sinne of thy seruants and of thy people Israel (when thou hast taught the the good way wherein they may walke) and giue raine vpon the land that thou hast giuen to thy people to inherite.
1 Kings 8:37	When there shalbe famine in the land, when there shalbe pestilence, when there shall be blasting, mildewe, grashopper or caterpiller, when their enemie shall besiege them in the cities of their lande, or any plague, or any sickenesse,
1 Kings 8:38	Then what prayer, and supplication so euer shalbe made of any man or of all thy people Israel, when euery one shall knowe the plague in his owne heart, and stretch foorth his handes in this house,
1 Kings 8:39	Heare thou then in heauen, in thy dwelling place, and be mercifull, and doe, and giue euery man according to all his wayes, as thou knowest his heart, (for thou only knowest the heartes of all the children of men)
1 Kings 8:40	That they may feare thee as long as they liue in ye lad, which thou gauest vnto our fathers.
1 Kings 8:41	Moreouer as touching the stranger that is not of thy people Israel, who shall come out of a farre countrey for thy Names sake,
1 Kings 8:42	(When they shall heare of thy great name, and of thy mightie hande, and of thy stretched out arme) and shall come and pray in this house,
1 Kings 8:43	Heare thou in heauen thy dwelling place, and do according to all that the stranger calleth for vnto thee: that all the people of the earth may know thy Name, and feare thee, as do thy people Israel: and that they may know, that thy Name is called vpon in this house which I haue built.
1 Kings 8:44	When thy people shall go out to battell against their enemie by the way that thou shalt sende them, and shall pray vnto the Lord towarde the way of the citie which thou hast chosen, and toward the house that I haue built for thy Name,
1 Kings 8:45	Heare thou then in heauen their prayer and their supplication, and iudge their cause.
1 Kings 8:46	If they sinne against thee, (for there is no man that sinneth not) and thou be angry with them, and deliuer them vnto the enemies, so that they cary them away prisoners vnto the land of the enemies, either farre or neere,
1 Kings 8:47	Yet if they turne againe vnto their heart in the lande (to the which they be caryed away captiues) and returne and pray vnto thee in the lande of them that caryed them away captiues, saying, We haue sinned, we haue transgressed, and done wickedly,
1 Kings 8:48	If they turne againe vnto thee with all their heart, and with all their soule in the lande of their enemies, which led them away captiues, and pray vnto thee toward the way of their land, which thou gauest vnto their fathers, and toward the citie which thou hast chosen, and the house, which I haue built for thy Name,
1 Kings 8:49	Then heare thou their prayer and their supplication in heauen thy dwelling place, and iudge their cause,
1 Kings 8:50	And be mercifull vnto thy people that haue sinned against thee, and vnto all their iniquities (wherein they haue transgressed against thee) and cause that they, which led them away captiues, may haue pitie and compassion on them:
1 Kings 8:51	For they be thy people, and thine inheritance, which thou broughtest out of Egypt from the middes of the yron fornace.
1 Kings 8:52	Let thine eyes be open vnto the prayer of thy seruant, and vnto the prayer of thy people Israel, to hearken vnto them, in all that they call for vnto thee.
1 Kings 8:53	For thou diddest separate them to thee from among all people of the earth for an inheritance, as thou saidest by the hand of Moses thy seruant, when thou broughtest our fathers out of Egypt, O Lord God.
1 Kings 8:54	And when Salomon had made an ende of praying all this prayer and supplication vnto the Lord, he arose from before the altar of the Lord, from kneeling on his knees, and stretching of his handes to heauen,
1 Kings 8:55	And stoode and blessed all the Congregation of Israel with a loud voyce, saying,
1 Kings 8:56	Blessed be the Lord that hath giuen rest vnto his people Israel, according to all that hee promised: there hath not fayled one word of all his good promise which he promised by the hand of Moses his seruant.
1 Kings 8:57	The Lord our God be with vs, as he was with our fathers, that he forsake vs not, neither leaue vs,
1 Kings 8:58	That he may bow our heartes vnto him, that we may walke in all his waies, and keepe his commandements, and his statutes, and his lawes, which he commanded our fathers.
1 Kings 8:59	And these my wordes, which I haue prayed before the Lord, be neere vnto the Lord our God day and night, that he defende the cause of his seruant, and the cause of his people Israel alway as the matter requireth,
1 Kings 8:60	That all the people of ye earth may knowe, that the Lord is God, and none other.
1 Kings 8:61	Let your heart therefore be perfit with the Lord our God to walke in his statutes, and to keepe his commandements, as this day.
1 Kings 8:62	Then the King and all Israel with him offred sacrifice before the Lord.
1 Kings 8:63	And Salomon offered a sacrifice of peace offrings which he offered vnto the Lord, to wit, two and twentie thousande beeues, and an hundreth and twentie thousande sheepe: so the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of the Lord.
1 Kings 8:64	The same day did the King halowe the middle of the court, that was before the house of the Lord: for there he made burnt offerings, and the meate offrings, and the fat of the peace offeringes, because the brasen altar that was before the Lord, was too litle to receiue the burnt offerings, and the meate offerings, and the fat of the peace offrings.
1 Kings 8:65	And Salomon made at that time a feast and all Israel with him, a very great Congregation, euen from the entring in of Hamath vnto the riuer of Egypt, before the Lord our God, seuen dayes and seuen dayes, euen fourteene dayes.
1 Kings 8:66	And the eight day he sent the people away: and they thanked the King and went vnto their tentes ioyous and with glad heart, because of al the goodnesse that the Lord had done for Dauid his seruant, and for Israel his people.
1 Kings 9:1	When Salomon had finished the building of the house of ye Lord, and the kings palace, and all that Salomon desired and minded to do,
1 Kings 9:2	Then the Lord appeared vnto Salomon the second time, as he appeared vnto him at Gibeon.
1 Kings 9:3	And the Lord sayd vnto him, I haue heard thy prayer and thy supplication, that thou hast made before me: I haue halowed this house (which thou hast built) to put my Name there for euer, and mine eyes, and mine heart shall be there perpetually.
1 Kings 9:4	And if thou wilt walke before mee (as Dauid thy father walked in purenesse of heart and in righteousnesse) to doe according to al that I haue commanded thee, and keepe my statutes, and my iudgements,
1 Kings 9:5	Then will I stablish the throne of thy kingdome vpon Israel for euer, as I promised to Dauid thy father, saying, Thou shalt not want a man vpon the throne of Israel.
1 Kings 9:6	But if ye and your children turne away from mee, and wil not keepe my commandements, and my statutes (which I haue set before you) but go and serue other gods, and worship them,
1 Kings 9:7	Then will I cutte off Israel from the lande, which I haue giuen them, and the house which I haue halowed for my Name, will I cast out of my sight, and Israel shall be a prouerbe, and a common talke among all people.
1 Kings 9:8	Euen this hie house shall bee so: euery one that passeth by it, shalbe astonied, and shall hisse, and they shall say, Why hath the Lord done thus vnto this land and to this house?
1 Kings 9:9	And they shall answere, Because they forsooke the Lord their God, which brought their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and haue taken holde vpon other gods, and haue worshipped them, and serued them, therfore hath the Lord brought vpon them all this euill.
1 Kings 9:10	And at the ende of twentie yeeres, when Salomon had buylded the two houses, the house of the Lord, and the Kings palace,
1 Kings 9:11	(For the which Hiram the King of Tyrus had brought to Salomon timber of cedar, and firre trees, and golde, and whatsoeuer he desired) then King Salomon gaue to Hiram twentie cities in the land of Galil.
1 Kings 9:12	And Hiram came out from Tyrus to see the cities which Salomon had giuen him, and they pleased him not.
1 Kings 9:13	Therefore hee sayde, What cities are these which thou hast giuen me, my brother? And hee called them the land of Cabul vnto this day.
1 Kings 9:14	And Hiram had sent the King sixe score talents of gold.
1 Kings 9:15	And this is the cause of the tribute why King Salomon raised tribute, to wit, to builde the house of the Lord, and his owne house, and Millo, and the wall of Ierusalem, and Hazor, and Megiddo, and Gezer.
1 Kings 9:16	Pharaoh King of Egypt had come vp, and taken Gezer, and burnt it with fire, and slew the Canaanites, that dwelt in the citie, and gaue it for a present vnto his daughter Salomons wife.
1 Kings 9:17	(Therefore Salomon builte Gezer and Beth-horon the nether,
1 Kings 9:18	And Baalath and Tamor in the wildernes of the land,
1 Kings 9:19	And all the cities of store, that Salomon had, euen cities for charets, and cities for horsemen, and all that Salomon desired and woulde build in Ierusalem, and in Lebanon and in all the land of his dominion)
1 Kings 9:20	Al the people that were left of the Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hiuites, and Iebusites, which were not of the children of Israel:
1 Kings 9:21	To wit, their children that were left after them in the lande, whome the children of Israel were not able to destroy, those did Salomon make tributaries vnto this day.
1 Kings 9:22	But of the children of Israel did Salomon make no bondmen: but they were men of warre and his seruants, and his princes, and his captaines, and rulers of his charets and his horsemen.
1 Kings 9:23	These were the princes of the officers, that were ouer Salomons worke: euen fiue hundreth and fiftie, and they ruled the people that wrought in the worke.
1 Kings 9:24	And Pharaohs daughter came vp from the citie of Dauid vnto the house which Salomon had built for her: then did he buylde Millo.
1 Kings 9:25	And thrise a yere did Salomon offer burnt offringes and peace offrings vpon the altar which he built vnto the Lord: and hee burnt incense vpon the altar that was before the Lord, when hee had finished the house.
1 Kings 9:26	Also King Salomon made a nauie of ships in Ezeon-geber, which is beside Eloth, and the brinke of the red Sea, in the land of Edom.
1 Kings 9:27	And Hiram sent with the nauie his seruats, that were mariners, and had knowledge of the sea, with the seruants of Salomon.
1 Kings 9:28	And they came to Ophir and sette from thence foure hundreth and twentie talents of gold, and brought it to King Salomon.
1 Kings 10:1	And the Queene of Sheba hearing ye fame of Salomon (concerning the Name of the Lord) came to proue him with hard questions.
1 Kings 10:2	And she came to Ierusalem with a verie great traine, and camels that bare sweete odours, and golde exceeding much, and precious stones: and shee came to Salomon, and communed with him of all that was in her heart.
1 Kings 10:3	And Salomon declared vnto her all her questions: nothing was hid from the King, which he expounded not vnto her.
1 Kings 10:4	Then the Queene of Sheba sawe all Salomons wisedome, and the house that he had built,
1 Kings 10:5	And the meate of his table, and the sitting of his seruants, and the order of his ministers, and their apparel, and his drinking vessels, and his burnt offrings, that he offered in the house of the Lord, and she was greatly astonied.
1 Kings 10:6	And shee sayde vnto the King, It was a true worde that I heard in mine owne lande of thy sayings, and of thy wisedome.
1 Kings 10:7	Howebeit I beleeued not this report till I came, and had seene it with mine eyes: but lo, ye one halfe was not tolde mee: for thou hast more wisedome and prosperitie, then I haue heard by report.
1 Kings 10:8	Happy are the men, happie are these thy seruants, which stande euer before thee, and heare thy wisedome.
1 Kings 10:9	Blessed be the Lord thy God, which loued thee, to set thee on the throne of Israel, because the Lord loued Israel for euer and made thee King to doe equitie and righteousnesse.
1 Kings 10:10	And she gaue the King sixe score talents of golde, and of sweete odours exceeding much, and precious stones. There came no more such aboundance of sweete odours, as the Queene of Sheba gaue to King Salomon.
1 Kings 10:11	The nauie also of Hiram (that caried gold from Ophir) brought likewise great plentie of Almuggim trees from Ophir and precious stones.
1 Kings 10:12	And the King made of ye Almuggim trees pillars for the house of the Lord, and for ye Kings palace, and made harpes and psalteries for singers. There came no more such Almuggim trees, nor were any more seene vnto this day.
1 Kings 10:13	And King Salomon gaue vnto the Queene of Sheba, whatsoeuer she would aske, besides that, which Salomon gaue her of his kingly liberalitie: so she returned and went to her owne countrey, both shee, and her seruantes.
1 Kings 10:14	Also the weight of golde, that came to Salomon in one yeere, was sixe hundreth three score and six talents of gold,
1 Kings 10:15	Besides that he had of marchant men and of the marchandises of them that solde spices, and of all the Kinges of Arabia, and of the princes of the countrey.
1 Kings 10:16	And King Salomon made two hundreth targets of beaten golde, sixe hundreth shekels of gold went to a target:
1 Kings 10:17	And three hundreth shieldes of beaten golde, three pound of gold went to one shielde: and the King put them in the house of the wood of Lebanon.
1 Kings 10:18	Then the King made a great throne of yuorie, and couered it with the best golde.
1 Kings 10:19	And the throne had six steps, and the top of the throne was round behind, and there were stayes on either side on the place of the throne, and two lions standing by the stayes.
1 Kings 10:20	And there stoode twelue lions on the sixe steps on either side: there was not the like made in any kingdome.
1 Kings 10:21	And all King Salomons drinking vessels were of golde, and all the vessels of the house of the woode of Lebanon were of pure golde, none were of siluer: for it was nothing esteemed in the dayes of Salomon.
1 Kings 10:22	For the King had on the sea the nauie of Tharshish with the nauie of Hiram: once in three yere came the nauie of Tharshish, and brought golde and siluer, yuorie, and apes and peacockes.
1 Kings 10:23	So King Salomon exceeded all the kings of the earth both in riches and in wisedome.
1 Kings 10:24	And al the world sought to see Salomon, to heare his wisedome, which God had put in his heart,
1 Kings 10:25	And they brought euery man his present, vessels of siluer, and vessels of golde, and raiment, and armour, and sweete odours, horses and mules, from yeere to yeere.
1 Kings 10:26	Then Salomon gathered together charrets and horsemen: and he had a thousand and foure hundreth charets, and twelue thousande horsemen, whome hee placed in the charet cities, and with the King at Ierusalem.
1 Kings 10:27	And the King gaue siluer in Ierusalem as stones, and gaue cedars as the wilde figtrees that growe abundantly in the plaine.
1 Kings 10:28	Also Salomon had horses brought out of Egypt, and fine linen: the Kings marchants receiued the linen for a price.
1 Kings 10:29	There came vp and went out of Egypt some charet, worth sixe hundreth shekels of siluer: that is, one horse, an hundreth and fiftie and thus they brought horses to all the Kings of the Hittites and to the Kings of Aram by their meanes.
1 Kings 11:1	Bvt King Salomon loued many outlandish women: both the daughter of Pharaoh, and the women of Moab, Ammon, Edom, Zidon and Heth,
1 Kings 11:2	Of the nations, whereof the Lord had sayd vnto the children of Israel, Goe not ye in to them, nor let them come in to you: for surely they will turne your hearts after their gods, to them, I say, did Salomon ioyne in loue.
1 Kings 11:3	And he had seuen hundreth wiues, that were princesses, and three hundreth concubines, and his wiues turned away his heart.
1 Kings 11:4	For when Salomon was olde, his wiues turned his heart after other gods, so that his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of Dauid his father.
1 Kings 11:5	For Salomon followed Ashtaroth the god of the Zidonians, and Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites.
1 Kings 11:6	So Salomon wrought wickednesse in the sight of the Lord, but continued not to follow the Lord, as did Dauid his father.
1 Kings 11:7	Then did Salomon build an hie place for Chemosh the abomination of Moab, in the mountaine that is ouer against Ierusalem, and vnto Molech the abomination of the children of Ammon.
1 Kings 11:8	And so did he for all his outlandish wiues, which burnt incense and offered vnto their gods.
1 Kings 11:9	Therefore the Lord was angry with Salomon, because hee had turned his heart from the Lord God of Israel, which had appeared vnto him twise,
1 Kings 11:10	And had giuen him a charge concerning this thing, that he should not follow other gods: but he kept not that, which the Lord had commanded him.
1 Kings 11:11	Wherefore the Lord sayd vnto Salomon, Forasmuch as this is done of thee, and thou hast not kept my couenant, and my statutes (which I commanded thee) I will surely rent the kingdome from thee, and will giue it to thy seruant.
1 Kings 11:12	Notwithstanding in thy dayes I will not doe it, because of Dauid thy father, but I will rent it out of the hand of thy sonne:
1 Kings 11:13	Howbeit I wil not rent all the Kingdome, but will giue one tribe to thy sonne, because of Dauid my seruant, and because of Ierusalem which I haue chosen.
1 Kings 11:14	Then the Lord stirred vp an aduersarie vnto Salomon, euen Hadad the Edomite, of the Kings seede, which was in Edom.
1 Kings 11:15	For when Dauid was in Edom, and Ioab the captaine of the hoste had smitten all the males in Edom, and was gone vp to bury ye slaine,
1 Kings 11:16	(For six moneths did Ioab remaine there, and all Israel, till he had destroyed all the males in Edom)
1 Kings 11:17	Then this Hadad fled and certaine other Edomites of his fathers seruants with him, to goe into Egypt, Hadad being yet a litle childe.
1 Kings 11:18	And they arose out of Midian, and came to Paran, and tooke men with them out of Paran, and came to Egypt vnto Pharaoh King of Egypt, which gaue him an house, and appointed him vitailes, and gaue him lande.
1 Kings 11:19	So Hadad found great fauour in the sight of Pharaoh, and he gaue him to wife the sister of his owne wife, euen the sister of Tahpenes the Queene.
1 Kings 11:20	And the sister of Tahpenes bare him Genubath his sonne, whome Tahpenes wayned in Pharaohs house: and Genubath was in Pharaohs house among the sonnes of Pharaoh.
1 Kings 11:21	And when Hadad heard in Egypt, that Dauid slept with his fathers, and that Ioab the captaine of the hoste was dead, Hadad sayde to Pharaoh, Let me depart, that I may goe to mine owne countrey.
1 Kings 11:22	But Pharaoh saide vnto him, What hast thou lacked with me, that thou wouldest thus go to thine owne countrey? And he answered, Nothing, but in any wise let me goe.
1 Kings 11:23	And God stirred him vp another aduersarie, Rezon the sonne of Eliada, which fled from his lorde Hadadezer King of Zobah.
1 Kings 11:24	And he gathered men vnto him, and had bene captaine ouer the company, when Dauid slew them. And they went to Damascus, and dwelt there, and they made him King in Damascus.
1 Kings 11:25	Therefore was he an aduersarie to Israel all the daies of Salomon: besides the euil that Hadad did, he also abhorred Israel, and reigned ouer Aram
1 Kings 11:26	And Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat an Ephrathite of Zereda Salomons seruant (whose mother was called Zeruah a widowe) lift vp his hand against the King.
1 Kings 11:27	And this was the cause that he lift vp his hande against the King, When Salomon built Millo, he repared the broken places of the citie of Dauid his father.
1 Kings 11:28	And this man Ieroboam was a man of strength and courage, and Salomon seeing that the yong man was meete for the worke, he made him ouerseer of all the labour of the house of Ioseph.
1 Kings 11:29	And at that time, when Ieroboam went out of Ierusalem, the Prophet Ahiiah the Shilonite founde him in the way, hauing a newe garment on him, and they two were alone in ye field.
1 Kings 11:30	Then Ahiiah caught the newe garment that was on him, and rent it in twelue pieces,
1 Kings 11:31	And said to Ieroboam, Take vnto thee ten pieces: for thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Beholde, I wil rent the kingdome out of ye hands of Salomon, and will giue ten tribes to thee.
1 Kings 11:32	But he shall haue one tribe for my seruant Dauids sake, and for Ierusalem the citie, which I haue chosen out of all the tribes of Israel,
1 Kings 11:33	Because they haue forsaken me, and haue worshipped Ashtaroth the god of the Zidonians, and Chemosh the god of the Moabites, and Milcom the god of the Ammonites, and haue not walked in my wayes (to do right in mine eyes, and my statutes, and my lawes) as did Dauid his father.
1 Kings 11:34	But I will not take the whole kingdome out of his hande: for I will make him prince all his life long for Dauid my seruants sake, whome I haue chosen, and who kept my commandements and my statutes.
1 Kings 11:35	But I will take the kingdome out of his sonnes hand, and will giue it vnto thee, euen the ten tribes.
1 Kings 11:36	And vnto his sonne will I giue one tribe, that Dauid my seruant may haue a light alway before me in Ierusalem the citie, which I haue chosen me, to put my Name there.
1 Kings 11:37	And I wil take thee, and thou shalt reigne, euen as thine heart desireth, and shalt be King ouer Israel.
1 Kings 11:38	And if thou hearken vnto all that I commande thee, and wilt walke in my wayes, and doe right in my sight, to keepe my statutes and my commandements, as Dauid my seruant did, then will I be with thee, and build thee a sure house, as I built vnto Dauid, and wil giue Israel vnto thee.
1 Kings 11:39	And I will for this afflict the seede of Dauid, but not for euer.
1 Kings 11:40	Salomon sought therefore to kill Ieroboam, and Ieroboam arose, and fled into Egypt vnto Shishak King of Egypt, and was in Egypt vntil the death of Salomon.
1 Kings 11:41	And the rest of the wordes of Salomon, and all that he did, and his wisedom, are they not written in the booke of the actes of Salomon?
1 Kings 11:42	The time that Salomon reigned in Ierusalem ouer all Israel, was fourtie yeere.
1 Kings 11:43	And Salomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the citie of Dauid his father: and Rehoboam his sonne reigned in his steade.
1 Kings 12:1	And Rehoboam went to Shechem: for al Israel were come to Sheche, to make him king
1 Kings 12:2	And whe Ieroboam ye sonne of Nebat heard of it (who was yet in Egypt, whither Ieroboam had fled from king Salomon, and dwelt in Egypt)
1 Kings 12:3	Then they sent and called him: and Ieroboam and all the Congregation of Israel came, and spake vnto Rehoboam, saying,
1 Kings 12:4	Thy father made our yoke grieuous: now therefore make thou the grieuous seruitude of thy father, and his sore yoke which he put vpon vs, lighter, and we will serue thee.
1 Kings 12:5	And he said vnto them, Depart yet for three dayes, then come againe to me. And the people departed.
1 Kings 12:6	And King Rehoboam tooke counsell with the olde men that had stande before Salomon his father, while he yet liued, and sayde, What counsell giue ye, that I may make an answere to this people?
1 Kings 12:7	And they spake vnto him, saying, If thou be a seruant vnto this people this day, and serue them, and answere them, and speake kinde wordes to them, they will be thy seruants for euer.
1 Kings 12:8	But he forsooke the counsell that the olde men had giuen him, and asked counsell of the yong men that had bene brought vp with him, and waited on him.
1 Kings 12:9	And he said vnto them, What counsell giue ye, that we may answere this people, which haue spoken to me, saying, Make the yoke, which thy father did put vpon vs, lighter?
1 Kings 12:10	Then the yong men that were brought vp with him, spake vnto him, saying, Thus shalt thou say vnto this people, that haue spoken vnto thee, and said, Thy father hath made our yoke heauie, but make thou it lighter vnto vs: euen thus shalt thou say vnto them, My least part shalbe bigger then my fathers loynes.
1 Kings 12:11	Now where as my father did burden you with a grieuous yoke, I will yet make your yoke heauier: my father hath chastised you with rods, but I will correct you with scourges.
1 Kings 12:12	Then Ieroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king had appointed, saying, Come to me againe ye thirde day.
1 Kings 12:13	And the king answered the people sharpely, and left the old mens counsell that they gaue him,
1 Kings 12:14	And spake to them after the counsell of the yong men, saying, My father made your yoke grieuous, and I will make your yoke more grieuous: my father hath chastised you with rods, but I will correct you with scourges.
1 Kings 12:15	And the King hearkened not vnto the people: for it was the ordinance of the Lord, that he might perfourme his saying, which the Lord had spoken by Ahiiah the Shilonite vnto Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat.
1 Kings 12:16	So when all Israel sawe that the King regarded them not, the people answered the King thus, saying, What portion haue we in Dauid? we haue none inheritance in the sonne of Ishai. To your tents, O Israel: nowe see to thine owne house, Dauid. So Israel departed vnto their tents.
1 Kings 12:17	Howbeit ouer the children of Israel, which dwelt in the cities of Iudah, did Rehoboam reigne still.
1 Kings 12:18	Nowe the King Rehoboam sent Adoram the receiuer of the tribute, and all Israel stoned him to death: then King Rehoboam made speede to get him vp to his charet, to flee to Ierusalem.
1 Kings 12:19	And Israel rebelled against the house of Dauid vnto this day.
1 Kings 12:20	And when all Israel had heard that Ieroboam was come againe, they sent and called him vnto the assemblie, and made him King ouer all Israel: none followed the house of Dauid, but the tribe of Iudah onely.
1 Kings 12:21	And when Rehoboam was come to Ierusalem, he gathered all the house of Iudah with the tribe of Beniamin an hundreth and foure score thousand of chosen men (which were good warriours) to fight against the house of Israel, and to bring the kingdome againe to Rehoboam the sonne of Salomon.
1 Kings 12:22	But the worde of God came vnto Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
1 Kings 12:23	Speake vnto Rehoboam the sonne of Salomon King of Iudah, and vnto all the house of Iudah and Beniamin, and the remnant of the people, saying,
1 Kings 12:24	Thus saith the Lord, Ye shall not go vp, nor fight against your brethren the children of Israel: returne euery man to his house: for this thing is done by me. They obeyed therefore the worde of the Lord and returned, and departed, according to the worde of the Lord.
1 Kings 12:25	Then Ieroboam built Shechem in mount Ephraim, and dwelt therein, and went from thence, and built Penuel.
1 Kings 12:26	And Ieroboam thought in his heart, Nowe shall the kingdome returne to the house of Dauid.
1 Kings 12:27	If this people goe vp and doe sacrifice in the house of the Lord at Ierusalem, then shall the heart of this people turne againe vnto their lorde, euen to Rehoboam King of Iudah: so shall they kill me and goe againe to Rehoboam King of Iudah.
1 Kings 12:28	Whereupon the King tooke counsell, and made two calues of golde, and saide vnto them, It is too much for you to goe vp to Ierusalem: beholde, O Israel, thy gods, which brought thee vp out of the lande of Egypt.
1 Kings 12:29	And he set the one in Beth-el, and the other set he in Dan.
1 Kings 12:30	And this thing turned to sinne: for the people went (because of the one) euen to Dan.
1 Kings 12:31	Also he made an house of hie places, and made Priestes of the lowest of the people, which were not of the sonnes of Leui.
1 Kings 12:32	And Ieroboam made a feast the fifteenth day of the eight moneth, like vnto the feast that is in Iudah, and offred on the altar. So did he in Beth-el and offered vnto the calues that he had made: and he placed in Beth-el the Priestes of the hie places, which he had made.
1 Kings 12:33	And he offered vpon the altar, which he had made in Beth-el, the fifteenth day of the eight moneth, (euen in the moneth which he had forged of his owne heart) and made a solemne feast vnto the children of Israel: and he went vp to the altar, to burne incense.
1 Kings 13:1	And beholde, there came a man of God out of Iudah (by the commandement of the Lord) vnto Beth-el, and Ieroboam stoode by the altar to offer incense.
1 Kings 13:2	And he cryed against the altar by the comandement of the Lord, and said, O altar, altar, thus saith the Lord, Beholde, a child shalbe borne vnto the house of Dauid, Iosiah by name, and vpon thee shall he sacrifice the Priestes of the hie places that burne incense vpon thee, and they shall burne mens bones vpon thee.
1 Kings 13:3	And he gaue a signe the same time, saying, This is the signe, that the Lord hath spoken, Behold, the altar shall rent, and the ashes that are vpon it, shall fall out.
1 Kings 13:4	And when the King had heard the saying of the man of God, which he had cryed against the altar in Beth-el, Ieroboam stretched out his hand from the altar, saying, Lay holde on him: but his hande which he put foorth against him, dryed vp, and he could not pull it in againe to him.
1 Kings 13:5	The altar also claue asunder, and the ashes fell out from the altar, according to the signe, which the man of God had giuen by the commandement of the Lord.
1 Kings 13:6	Then the King answered, and saide vnto the man of God, I beseeche thee, pray vnto ye Lord thy God, and make intercession for me, that mine hand may bee restored vnto me. And the man of God besought the Lord, and the Kings hand was restored, and became as it was afore.
1 Kings 13:7	Then the King sayde vnto the man of God, Come home with mee, that thou mayest dyne, and I will giue thee a reward.
1 Kings 13:8	But the man of God saide vnto the King, If thou wouldest giue me halfe thine house, I would not goe in with thee, neither woulde I eate bread nor drinke water in this place.
1 Kings 13:9	For so was it charged mee by the worde of the Lord, saying, Eate no bread nor drinke water, nor turne againe by the same way that thou camest.
1 Kings 13:10	So he went another way and returned not by the way that he came to Beth-el.
1 Kings 13:11	And an olde Prophet dwelt in Beth-el, and his sonnes came and tolde him all ye woorkes, that the man of God had done that day in Beth-el, and the wordes which he had spoken vnto the King, tolde they their father.
1 Kings 13:12	And their father sayde vnto them, What way went he? and his sonnes shewed him what waye the man of God went, which came from Iudah.
1 Kings 13:13	And hee saide vnto his sonnes, Saddle mee the asse. Who sadled him the asse, and hee rode thereon,
1 Kings 13:14	And went after the man of God, and found him sitting vnder an oke: and he saide vnto him, Art thou the man of God that camest from Iudah? And he sayd, Yea.
1 Kings 13:15	Then he said vnto him, Come home with me, and eate bread.
1 Kings 13:16	But he answered, I may not returne with thee, nor go in with thee, neither wil I eate bread nor drinke water with thee in this place.
1 Kings 13:17	For it was charged me by the word of the Lord, saying, Thou shalt eate no bread, nor drinke water there, nor turne againe to goe by the way that thou wentest.
1 Kings 13:18	And he said vnto him, I am a Prophet also as thou art, and an Angel spake vnto me by the worde of the Lord, saying, Bring him againe with thee into thine house, that hee may eate bread and drinke water: but he lyed vnto him.
1 Kings 13:19	So he went againe with him, and did eate bread in his house, and dranke water.
1 Kings 13:20	And as they sate at the table, the worde of the Lord came vnto the Prophet, that brought him againe.
1 Kings 13:21	And hee cried vnto the man of God that came from Iudah, saying, Thus sayeth the Lord, Because thou hast disobeyed the mouth of the Lord, and hast not kept the commandement which the Lord thy God commanded thee,
1 Kings 13:22	But camest backe againe, and hast eaten bread and drunke water in the place (whereof he did say vnto thee, Thou shalt eate no bread nor drinke any water) thy carkeis shall not come vnto the sepulchre of thy fathers.
1 Kings 13:23	And when he had eaten bread and drunke, he sadled him the asse, to wit, to the Prophet whome he had brought againe.
1 Kings 13:24	And when hee was gone, a lion met him by the way, and slewe him, and his body was cast in the way, and the asse stoode thereby: the lion stood by the corps also.
1 Kings 13:25	And beholde, men that passed by, sawe the carkeis cast in the way, and the lion standing by the corps: and they came and tolde it in ye towne where the olde Prophet dwelt.
1 Kings 13:26	And when the Prophet that brought him backe againe from the waye, hearde thereof, hee sayde, It is the man of God, who hath bene disobedient vnto the commandement of the Lord: therefore the Lord hath deliuered him vnto the lion, which hath rent him and slayne him, according to the worde of the Lord, which hee spake vnto him.
1 Kings 13:27	And he spake to his sonnes, saying, Saddle me the asse. And they sadled him.
1 Kings 13:28	And he went and founde his body cast in the way, and the asse and the lion stoode by the corps: and the lion had not eaten the bodie, nor torne the asse.
1 Kings 13:29	And the Prophet tooke vp the body of the man of God, and layed it vpon the asse, and brought it againe, and the olde Prophet came to the citie, to lament and burie him.
1 Kings 13:30	And hee layed his bodie in his owne graue, and they lamented ouer him, saying, Alas, my brother.
1 Kings 13:31	And when he had buried him, hee spake to his sonnes, saying, When I am dead, burie ye mee also in the sepulchre, wherein the man of God is buried: lay my bones beside his bones.
1 Kings 13:32	For that thing which he cried by the word of the Lord against the altar that is in Beth-el, and against all the houses of the hie places, which are in the cities of Samaria, shall surely come to passe.
1 Kings 13:33	Howbeit after this, Ieroboam conuerted not from his wicked way, but turned againe, and made of the lowest of the people Priests of the hie places. Who would, might consecrate him selfe, and be of the Priestes of the hie places.
1 Kings 13:34	And this thing turned to sinne vnto the house of Ieroboam, euen to roote it out, and destroy it from the face of the earth.
1 Kings 14:1	At that time Abiiah the sonne of Ieroboam fell sicke.
1 Kings 14:2	And Ieroboam saide vnto his wife, Vp, I pray thee, and disguise thy selfe, that they know not that thou art the wife of Ieroboam, and goe to Shiloh: for there is Ahiiah the Prophet, which tolde mee that I shoulde bee King ouer this people,
1 Kings 14:3	And take with thee tenne loaues and craknels, and a bottell of honie, and go to him: hee shall tell thee what shall become of the yong man.
1 Kings 14:4	And Ieroboams wife did so, and arose, and went to Shiloh, and came to the house of Ahiiah: but Ahiiah could not see, for his sight was decayed for his age.
1 Kings 14:5	Then the Lord saide vnto Ahiiah, Beholde, the wife of Ieroboam commeth to aske a thing of thee for her sonne, for he is sicke: thus and thus shalt thou say vnto her: for when shee commeth in, shee shall feine her selfe to be another.
1 Kings 14:6	Therefore when Ahiiah heard the sounde of her feete as shee came in at the doore, hee saide, Come in, thou wife of Ieroboam: why feinest thou thus thy selfe to bee an other? I am sent to thee with heauie tidings.
1 Kings 14:7	Goe, tel Ieroboam, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Forasmuch as I haue exalted thee from among the people, and haue made thee prince ouer my people Israel,
1 Kings 14:8	And haue rent the kingdome away from the house of Dauid, and haue giuen it thee, and thou hast not bene as my seruant Dauid, which kept my commandements, and followed mee with all his heart, and did onely that which was right in mine eyes,
1 Kings 14:9	But hast done euil aboue al that were before thee (for thou hast gone and made thee other gods, and molten images, to prouoke me, and hast cast me behinde thy backe)
1 Kings 14:10	Therefore beholde, I will bring euill vpon the house of Ieroboam, and will cut off from Ieroboam him that pisseth against the wall, aswell him that is shut vp, as him that is left in Israel, and will sweepe away the remnant of the house of Ieroboam, as a man sweepeth away doung, till it be all gone.
1 Kings 14:11	The dogges shall eate him of Ieroboams stocke that dyeth in the citie, and the foules of the aire shall eate him that dyeth in the fielde: for the Lord hath said it.
1 Kings 14:12	Vp therefore and get thee to thine house: for when thy feete enter into the citie, the childe shall die.
1 Kings 14:13	And al Israel shall mourne for him, and burie him: for he onely of Ieroboam shall come to the graue, because in him there is found some goodnes towarde the Lord God of Israel in the house of Ieroboam.
1 Kings 14:14	Moreouer, the Lord shall stirre him vp a King ouer Israel, which shall destroy the house of Ieroboam in that day: what? yea, euen nowe.
1 Kings 14:15	For the Lord shall smite Israel, as when a reede is shaken in the water, and hee shall weede Israel out of his good lad, which he gaue to their fathers, and shall scatter them beyond the Riuer, because they haue made them groues, prouoking the Lord to anger.
1 Kings 14:16	And he shall giue Israel vp, because of the sinnes of Ieroboam, who did sinne, and made Israel to sinne.
1 Kings 14:17	And Ieroboams wife arose, and departed, and came to Tirzah, and when shee came to the threshold of the house, the yong man dyed,
1 Kings 14:18	And they buried him, and all Israel lamented him; according to the word of the Lord, which hee spake by the hand of his seruant Ahiiah the Prophet.
1 Kings 14:19	And the rest of Ieroboams actes, how hee warred, and howe hee reigned, beholde, they are written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
1 Kings 14:20	And the dayes which Ieroboam reigned, were two and twentie yeere: and he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his sonne reigned in his steade.
1 Kings 14:21	Also Rehoboam the sonne of Salomon reigned in Iudah. Rehoboam was one and fourtie yere olde, when he began to reigne, and reigned seuenteene yere in Ierusalem, the citie which the Lord did chuse out of al the tribes of Israel, to put his Name there: and his mothers name was Naamah an Ammonite.
1 Kings 14:22	And Iudah wrought wickednesse in the sight of the Lord: and they prouoked him more with their sinnes, which they had committed, then all that which their fathers had done.
1 Kings 14:23	For they also made them hie places, and images, and groues on euery hie hill, and vnder euery greene tree.
1 Kings 14:24	There were also Sodomites in the lande, they did according to all the abominations of the nations, which the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel.
1 Kings 14:25	And in the fift yere of King Rehoboam, Shishak King of Egypt came vp against Ierusale,
1 Kings 14:26	And tooke the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the Kings house, and tooke away all: also he caried away all the shields of golde which Salomon had made.
1 Kings 14:27	And King Rehoboam made for them brasen shieldes, and committed them vnto ye hands of the chiefe of the garde, which wayted at the doore of the Kings house.
1 Kings 14:28	And when the King went into the house of the Lord, the garde bare them, and brought them againe into the gard chamber.
1 Kings 14:29	And the rest of the actes of Rehoboam, and all that hee did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
1 Kings 14:30	And there was warre betweene Rehoboam and Ieroboam continually.
1 Kings 14:31	And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the citie of Dauid: his mothers name was Naamah an Ammonite. And Abiiam his sonne reigned in his stead.
1 Kings 15:1	And in the eighteenth yeere of King Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, reigned Abiiam ouer Iudah.
1 Kings 15:2	Three yeere reigned hee in Ierusalem, and his mothers name was Maachah the daughter of Abishalom.
1 Kings 15:3	And hee walked in all the sinnes of his father, which hee had done before him: and his heart was not perfit with the Lord his God as the heart of Dauid his father.
1 Kings 15:4	But for Dauids sake did the Lord his God giue him a light in Ierusalem, and set vp his sonne after him, and established Ierusalem,
1 Kings 15:5	Because Dauid did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, and turned from nothing that he commanded him, all the dayes of his life, saue onely in the matter of Vriah the Hittite.
1 Kings 15:6	And there was warre betweene Rehoboam and Ieroboam as long as he liued.
1 Kings 15:7	The rest also of the actes of Abiiam, and all that he did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah? there was also warre betweene Abiiam, and Ieroboam.
1 Kings 15:8	And Abiiam slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the citie of Dauid: and Asa his sonne reigned in his steade.
1 Kings 15:9	And in the twentie yeere of Ieroboam King of Israel reigned Asa ouer Iudah.
1 Kings 15:10	He reigned in Ierusalem one and fourtie yeere, and his mothers name was Maachah the daughter of Abishalom.
1 Kings 15:11	And Asa did right in the eyes of the Lord, as did Dauid his father.
1 Kings 15:12	And he tooke away the Sodomites out of the lande, and put away all the idoles that his fathers had made.
1 Kings 15:13	And he put downe Maachah his mother also from her estate, because shee had made an idole in a groue: and Asa destroyed her idoles, and burnt them by the brooke Kidron.
1 Kings 15:14	But they put not downe the hie places. Neuertheles Asas heart was vpright with the Lord all his dayes.
1 Kings 15:15	Also he brought in the holy vessels of his father, and the things that he had dedicated vnto ye house of the Lord, siluer, and golde, and vessels.
1 Kings 15:16	And there was warre betweene Asa and Baasha King of Israel all their dayes.
1 Kings 15:17	Then Baasha king of Israel went vp against Iudah, and buylt Ramah, so that he woulde let none go out or in to Asa King of Iudah.
1 Kings 15:18	Then Asa tooke all the siluer and the gold that was left in the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the kings house, and deliuered them into the handes of his seruantes, and King Asa sent them to Ben-hadad the sonne of Tabrimon, the sonne of Hezion king of Aram that dwelt at Damascus, saying,
1 Kings 15:19	There is a couenant betweene me and thee, and betweene my father and thy father: behold, I haue sent vnto thee a present of siluer and golde: come, breake thy couenant with Baasha King of Israel, that he may depart from me.
1 Kings 15:20	So Ben-hadad hearkened vnto King Asa, and sent the captaines of the hosts, which he had, against the cities of Israel, and smote lion, and Dan, and Abel-beth-maachah, and all Cinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali.
1 Kings 15:21	And when Baasha heard thereof, hee left buylding of Ramah, and dwelt in Tirzah.
1 Kings 15:22	Then king Asa assembled al Iudah, none excepted. and they tooke the stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha had buylt, and King Asa built with them Geba of Beniamin and Mizpah.
1 Kings 15:23	And the rest of all the actes of Asa, and all his might, and all that he did, and the cities which he buylt, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah? but in his olde age he was diseased in his feete.
1 Kings 15:24	And Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the citie of Dauid his father. And Iehoshaphat his sonne reigned in his steade.
1 Kings 15:25	And Nadab the sonne of Ieroboam began to reigne ouer Israel the second yere of Asa King of Iudah, and reigned ouer Israel two yeere.
1 Kings 15:26	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord, walking in the way of his father, and in his sinne wherewith he made Israel to sinne.
1 Kings 15:27	And Baasha the sonne of Ahijah of ye house of Issachar conspired against him, and Baasha slue him at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistims: for Nadab and all Israel layde siege to Gibbethon.
1 Kings 15:28	Euen in the third yeere of Asa King of Iudah did Baasha slay him, and reigned in his steade.
1 Kings 15:29	And when he was King, he smote all the house of Ieroboam, he left none aliue to Ieroboam, vntill hee had destroyed him, according to the word of the Lord which he spake by his seruant Ahijah the Shilonite,
1 Kings 15:30	Because of the sinnes of Ieroboam which he committed, and wherewith he made Israel to sinne, by his prouocation, wherewith he prouoked the Lord God of Israel.
1 Kings 15:31	And the residue of the actes of Nadab, and all that he did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1 Kings 15:32	And there was warre betweene Asa and Baasha King of Israel, all their dayes.
1 Kings 15:33	In the thirde yeere of Asa King of Iudah, began Baasha the sonne of Ahijah to reigne ouer all Israel in Tirzah, and reigned foure and twentie yeeres.
1 Kings 15:34	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord, walking in the way of Ieroboam, and in his sinne, wherewith he made Israel to sinne.
1 Kings 16:1	Then the word of the Lord came to Iehu the sonne of Hanani against Baasha, saying,
1 Kings 16:2	Forasmuch as I exalted thee out of the dust, and made thee captaine ouer my people Israel, and thou hast walked in the way of Ieroboam, and hast made my people Israel to sinne, to prouoke me with their sinnes,
1 Kings 16:3	Beholde, I will take away the posteritie of Baasha, and the posteritie of his house, and will make thine house like the house of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat.
1 Kings 16:4	He that dyeth of Baashas stocke in the citie, him shall the dogs eate: and that man of him which dyeth in the fieldes, shall the foules of the ayre eate.
1 Kings 16:5	And the rest of the actes of Baasha and what he did, and his power, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel?
1 Kings 16:6	So Baasha slept with his fathers, and was buryed in Tirzah, and Elah his sonne reigned in his steade.
1 Kings 16:7	And also by the hande of Iehu the sonne of Hanani the Prophet, came the worde of the Lord to Baasha, and to his house, that he shoulde be like the house of Ieroboam, euen for all the wickednes that he did in the sight of the Lord, in prouoking him with the worke of his hands, and because he killed him.
1 Kings 16:8	In the sixe and twentie yeere of Asa king of Iudah began Elah ye sonne of Baasha to reigne ouer Israel in Tirzah, and reigned two yeere.
1 Kings 16:9	And his seruant Zimri, captaine of halfe his charets, conspired against him, as he was in Tirzah drinking, til he was drunken in the house of Arza steward of his house in Tirzah.
1 Kings 16:10	And Zimri came and smote him and killed him, in the seuen and twentie yeere of Asa king of Iudah, and reigned in his stead.
1 Kings 16:11	And when he was King, and sate on his throne, he slew al the house of Baasha, not leauing thereof one to pisse against a wall, neither of his kinsfolkes nor of his friendes.
1 Kings 16:12	So did Zimri destroy all the house of Baasha, according to the word of the Lord which he spake against Baasha by the hande of Iehu the Prophet,
1 Kings 16:13	For all the sinnes of Baasha, and sinnes of Elah his sonne, which they sinned and made Israel to sinne, and prouoked the Lord God of Israel with their vanities.
1 Kings 16:14	And the rest of the actes of Elah, and all that he did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1 Kings 16:15	In the seuen and twentie yeere of Asa King of Iudah did Zimri reigne seuen dayes in Tirzah, and the people was then in campe against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistims.
1 Kings 16:16	And the people of the hoste heard saye, Zimri hath conspired, and hath also slayne the King. Wherefore all Israel made Omri the captaine of the hoste, king ouer Israel that same day, euen in the hoste.
1 Kings 16:17	Then Omri went vp from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged Tirzah.
1 Kings 16:18	And when Zimri saw, that the citie was taken, he went into the palace of the Kings house, and burnt himselfe, and the Kings house with fire, and so dyed,
1 Kings 16:19	For his sinnes which hee sinned, in doing that which is euil in the sight of the Lord, in walking in the way of Ieroboam, and in his sinnes which he did, causing Israel to sinne.
1 Kings 16:20	And the rest of the actes of Zimri, and his treason that hee wrought, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kinges of Israel?
1 Kings 16:21	Then were the people of Israel deuided into two partes: for halfe the people followed Tibni the sonne of Ginath to make him King, and the other halfe followed Omri.
1 Kings 16:22	But the people that folowed Omri, preuayled against the people that followed Tibni the sonne of Ginath: so Tibni dyed, and Omri reigned.
1 Kings 16:23	In the one and thirtie yeere of Asa King of Iudah bega Omri to reigne ouer Israel, and reigned twelue yeere. Sixe yeere reigned he in Tirzah.
1 Kings 16:24	And he bought the mountaine Samaria of one Shemer for two talents of siluer, and buylt in the mountaine, and called the name of the citie, which he buylt, after the name of Shemer lord of the mountaine, Samaria.
1 Kings 16:25	But Omri did euil in the eyes of the Lord, and did worse then all that were before him.
1 Kings 16:26	For he walked in all the way of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, and in his sinnes wherewith he made Israel to sinne in prouoking the Lord God of Israel with their vanities.
1 Kings 16:27	And the rest of the actes of Omri, that hee did, and his strength that he shewed, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1 Kings 16:28	And Omri slept with his fathers, and was buryed in Samaria: and Ahab his sonne reigned in his stead.
1 Kings 16:29	Nowe Ahab the sonne of Omri began to reigne ouer Israel, in the eyght and thirtie yeere of Asa king of Iudah: and Ahab the sonne of Omri reigned ouer Israel in Samaria two and twenty yere.
1 Kings 16:30	And Ahab the sonne of Omri did worse in ye sight of the Lord then al that were before him.
1 Kings 16:31	For was it a light thing for him to walke in the sinnes of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, except hee tooke Iezebel also the daughter of Ethbaal King of the Zidonians to wife, and went and serued Baal, and worshipped him?
1 Kings 16:32	Also he reared vp an altar to Baal in the house of Baal, which he had buylt in Samaria.
1 Kings 16:33	And Ahab made a groue, and Ahab proceeded, and did prouoke the Lord God of Israel more then all the kings of Israel that were before him.
1 Kings 16:34	In his dayes did Hiel the Bethelite buylde Iericho: he layed the foundation thereof in Abiram his eldest sonne, and set vp the gates thereof in his yongest sonne Segub, according to the worde of the Lord which he spake by Ioshua the sonne of Nun.
1 Kings 17:1	And Eliiah the Tishbite one of the inhabitats of Gilead sayde vnto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liueth, before whom I stand, there shall be neither dewe nor rayne these yeeres, but according to my worde.
1 Kings 17:2	And the worde of the Lord came vnto him, saying,
1 Kings 17:3	Go hence, and turne thee Eastwarde, and hide thy selfe in the riuer Cherith, that is ouer against Iorden,
1 Kings 17:4	And thou shalt drinke of the riuer: and I haue comanded the rauens to feede thee there.
1 Kings 17:5	So he went and did according vnto the word of the Lord: for he went, and remained by the riuer Cherith that is ouer against Iorden.
1 Kings 17:6	And the rauens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the euening, and he dranke of the riuer.
1 Kings 17:7	And after a while the riuer dryed vp, because there fell no rayne vpon the earth.
1 Kings 17:8	And the worde of the Lord came vnto him, saying,
1 Kings 17:9	Vp, and get thee to Zarephath, which is in Zidon, and remaine there: beholde, I haue commanded a widow there to sustaine thee.
1 Kings 17:10	So he arose, and went to Zarephath: and when he came to the gate of the citie, beholde, the widowe was there gathering stickes: and he called her, and sayde, Bring me, I pray thee, a litle water in a vessel, that I may drinke.
1 Kings 17:11	And as she was going to fet it, he called to her, and sayde, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsell of bread in thine hand.
1 Kings 17:12	And shee sayde, As the Lord thy God liueth, I haue not a cake, but euen an handfull of meale in a barrel, and a litle oyle in a cruse: and behold, I am gathering a fewe stickes for to go in, and dresse it for me and my sonne, that we may eate it, and dye.
1 Kings 17:13	And Eliiah said vnto her, Feare not, come, do as thou hast sayd, but make me thereof a litle cake first of all, and bring it vnto mee, and afterward make for thee, and thy sonne.
1 Kings 17:14	For thus saith the Lord God of Israel, The meale in the barrel shall not be wasted, neither shall the oyle in the cruse be diminished, vnto the time that the Lord send rayne vpon the earth.
1 Kings 17:15	So she went, and did as Eliiah sayd, and she did eate: so did he and her house for a certaine time.
1 Kings 17:16	The barrell of the meale wasted not, nor the oyle was spent out of the cruse, according to the worde of the Lord, which he spake by the hand of Eliiah.
1 Kings 17:17	And after these things, the sonne of the wife of the house fell sicke, and his sicknesse was so sore, that there was no breath left in him.
1 Kings 17:18	And she said vnto Eliiah, What haue I to do with thee, O thou man of God? art thou come vnto me to call my sinne to remembrance, and to slay my sonne?
1 Kings 17:19	And he said vnto her, Giue me thy sonne. and he tooke him out of her bosome, and caryed him vp into a chamber, where he abode, and laid him vpon his owne bed.
1 Kings 17:20	Then he called vnto the Lord, and sayde, O Lord my God, hast thou punished also this widowe, with whome I soiourne, by killing her sonne?
1 Kings 17:21	And he stretched himselfe vpon the childe three times, and called vnto the Lord, and saide, O Lord my God, I pray thee, let this childes soule come into him againe.
1 Kings 17:22	Then the Lord heard the voyce of Eliiah, and the soule of the child came into him againe, and he reuiued.
1 Kings 17:23	And Eliiah tooke the childe, and brought him downe out of the chamber into the house, and deliuered him vnto his mother, and Eliiah sayd, Behold, thy sonne liueth.
1 Kings 17:24	And the woman saide vnto Eliiah, Now I knowe that thou art a man of God, and that the worde of the Lord in thy mouth is true.
1 Kings 18:1	After many dayes, the worde of the Lord came to Eliiah, in the third yeere, saying, Goe, shewe thy selfe vnto Ahab, and I will sende rayne vpon the earth.
1 Kings 18:2	And Eliiah went to shew himselfe vnto Ahab, and there was a great famine in Samaria.
1 Kings 18:3	And Ahab called Obadiah the gouernour of his house: (and Obadiah feared God greatly:
1 Kings 18:4	For when Iezebel destroyed the Prophets of the Lord, Obadiah tooke an hundreth Prophets, and hid them, by fiftie in a caue, and he fed them with bread and water.)
1 Kings 18:5	And Ahab saide vnto Obadiah, Goe into the land, vnto all the fountaines of water, and vnto all the riuers, if so be that we may finde grasse to saue the horses and the mules aliue, lest we depriue the lande of the beastes.
1 Kings 18:6	And so they deuided the lande betweene them to walke thorowe it. Ahab went one way by him selfe, and Obadiah went another way by him selfe.
1 Kings 18:7	And as Obadiah was in the way, behold, Eliiah met him: and he knew him, and fell on his face, and said, Art not thou my lord Eliiah?
1 Kings 18:8	And he answered him, Yea, goe tell thy lord, Behold, Eliiah is here.
1 Kings 18:9	And he said, What haue I sinned, that thou wouldest deliuer thy seruant into the hande of Ahab, to slay me?
1 Kings 18:10	As the Lord thy God liueth, there is no nation or kingdome, whither my lorde hath not sent to seeke thee: and when they sayd, He is not here, he tooke an othe of the kingdome and nation, if they had not found thee.
1 Kings 18:11	And now thou sayest, Goe, tell thy lorde, Beholde, Eliiah is here.
1 Kings 18:12	And when I am gone from thee, the Spirit of the Lord shall cary thee into some place that I doe not know: so when I come and tell Ahab, if he cannot finde thee, then wil he kill me: But I thy seruant feare the Lord from my youth.
1 Kings 18:13	Was it not tolde my lord, what I did when Iezebel slew the Prophets of the Lord, how I hid an hundreth men of the Lordes Prophets by fifties in a caue, and fed them with bread and water?
1 Kings 18:14	And now thou sayest, Go, tel thy lord, Behold, Eliiah is here, that he may slay me.
1 Kings 18:15	And Eliiah said, As the Lord of hostes liueth, before whome I stand, I will surely shewe my selfe vnto him this day.
1 Kings 18:16	So Obadiah went to meete Ahab, and tolde him: And Ahab went to meete Eliiah.
1 Kings 18:17	And when Ahab saw Eliiah, Ahab said vnto him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel?
1 Kings 18:18	And he answered, I haue not troubled Israel, but thou, and thy fathers house, in that ye haue forsaken the commandements of the Lord, and thou hast followed Baalim.
1 Kings 18:19	Now therefore send, and gather to me all Israel vnto mount Carmel, and the prophets of Baal foure hundreth and fiftie, and the prophets of the groues foure hundreth, which eate at Iezebels table.
1 Kings 18:20	So Ahab sent vnto all the children of Israel, and gathered the prophets together vnto mount Carmel.
1 Kings 18:21	And Eliiah came vnto all the people, and said, How long halt ye betweene two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him: but if Baal be he, then goe after him. And the people answered him not a worde.
1 Kings 18:22	Then said Eliiah vnto the people, I onely remayne a Prophet of the Lord: but Baals prophets are foure hundreth and fiftie men.
1 Kings 18:23	Let them therefore giue vs two bullockes, and let them chuse the one, and cut him in pieces, and lay him on the wood, but put no fire vnder, and I will prepare the other bullocke, and lay him on the wood, and will put no fire vnder.
1 Kings 18:24	Then call ye on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of the Lord: and then the God that answereth by fire, let him be God. And all the people answered, and sayde, It is well spoken.
1 Kings 18:25	And Eliiah said vnto the prophets of Baal, Chuse you a bullocke, and prepare him first, (for ye are many) and call on the name of your gods, but put no fire vnder.
1 Kings 18:26	So they tooke the one bullocke, that was giuen them, and they prepared it, and called on the name of Baal, from morning to noone, saying, O Baal, heare vs: but there was no voyce, nor any to answere: and they leapt vpon the altar that was made.
1 Kings 18:27	And at noone Eliiah mocked them, and said, Crye loude: for he is a god: either he talketh or pursueth his enemies, or is in his iourney, or it may be that he sleepeth, and must be awaked.
1 Kings 18:28	And they cryed loude, and cut them selues as their maner was, with kniues and launcers, till the blood gushed out vpon them.
1 Kings 18:29	And when midday was passed, and they had prophecied vntil the offring of the euening sacrifice, there was neither voyce, nor one to answere, nor any that regarded.
1 Kings 18:30	And Eliiah said vnto all the people, Come to me. And all the people came to him. And he repayred the altar of the Lord that was broken downe.
1 Kings 18:31	And Eliiah tooke twelue stones, according to the nomber of the tribes of the sonnes of Iaakob, (vnto whome the worde of the Lord came, saying, Israel shalbe thy name)
1 Kings 18:32	And with the stones he buylt an altar in the Name of the Lord: and he made a ditch round about the altar, as great as woulde conteine two measures of seede.
1 Kings 18:33	And he put the wood in order, and hewed the bullocke in pieces, and layd him on the wood,
1 Kings 18:34	And said, Fill foure barrels with water, and powre it on the burnt offring and on the wood. Againe he said, Doe so againe. And they did so the second time. And he sayde, Doe it the third time. And they did it the third time.
1 Kings 18:35	And the water ran round about the altar: and he filled the ditch with water also.
1 Kings 18:36	And when they should offer the euening sacrifice, Eliiah the Prophet came, and sayd, Lord God of Abraham, Izhak and of Israel, let it be knowen this day, that thou art the God of Israel, and that I am thy seruant, and that I haue done all these things at thy commandement.
1 Kings 18:37	Heare me, O Lord, heare me, and let this people know that thou art the Lord God, and that thou hast turned their heart againe at the last.
1 Kings 18:38	Then the fire of the Lord fell, and consumed the burnt offring, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked vp the water that was in the ditche.
1 Kings 18:39	And when all the people sawe it, they fell on their faces, and saide, The Lord is God, the Lord is God.
1 Kings 18:40	And Elijah said vnto them, Take the prophets of Baal, let not a man of them escape. and they tooke them, and Eliiah brought them to the brooke Kishon, and slewe them there.
1 Kings 18:41	And Eliiah sayde vnto Ahab, Get thee vp, eate and drinke, for there is a sound of much rayne.
1 Kings 18:42	So Ahab went vp to eate and to drinke, and Eliiah went vp to the top of Carmel: and he crouched vnto the earth, and put his face betweene his knees,
1 Kings 18:43	And sayde to his seruant, Goe vp now and looke towarde the way of the Sea. And he went vp, and looked, and sayde, There is nothing. Againe he sayd, Goe againe seuen times.
1 Kings 18:44	And at the seuenth time he sayd, Behold, there ariseth a litle cloude out of the sea like a mans hand. Then he sayd, Vp, and say vnto Ahab, Make readie thy charet, and get thee downe, that the raine stay thee not.
1 Kings 18:45	And in the meane while the heauen was blacke with cloudes and winde, and there was a great rayne. Then Ahab went vp and came to Izreel.
1 Kings 18:46	And the hand of the Lord was on Eliiah, and he girded vp his Ioynes, and ran before Ahab till he came to Izreel.
1 Kings 19:1	Now Ahab tolde Iezebel all that Eliiah had done, and how he had slaine all the prophets with the sword.
1 Kings 19:2	Then Iezebel sent a messenger vnto Eliiah, saying, The gods doe so to me and more also, if I make not thy life like one of their liues by to morowe this time.
1 Kings 19:3	When he sawe that, he arose, and went for his life, and came to Beer-sheba, which is in Iudah, and left his seruant there.
1 Kings 19:4	But he went a dayes iourney into the wildernesse, and came and sate downe vnder a iuniper tree, and desired that he might die, and sayde, It is now ynough: O Lord, take my soule, for I am no better then my fathers.
1 Kings 19:5	And as he lay and slept vnder the iuniper tree, behold now, an Angel touched him, and said vnto him, Vp, and eate.
1 Kings 19:6	And when he looked about, behold, there was a cake baken on the coles, and a pot of water at his head: so he did eate and drinke, and returned and slept.
1 Kings 19:7	And the Angel of the Lord came againe the second time, and touched him, and sayd, Vp, and eate: for thou hast a great iourney.
1 Kings 19:8	Then he arose, and did eate and drinke, and walked in the strength of that meate fourtie dayes and fourtie nights, vnto Horeb the mount of God.
1 Kings 19:9	And there he entred into a caue, and lodged there: and beholde, the Lord spake to him, and said vnto him, What doest thou here, Eliiah?
1 Kings 19:10	And he answered, I haue bene very ielous for the Lord God of hostes: for the children of Israel haue forsaken thy couenant, broken downe thine altars, and slayne thy Prophets with the sword, and I onely am left, and they seeke my life to take it away.
1 Kings 19:11	And he saide, Come out, and stand vpon the mount before the Lord. And beholde, the Lord went by, and a mightie strong winde rent the mountaines, and brake the rockes before the Lord: but the Lord was not in the winde: and after the wind came an earthquake: but the Lord was not in the earthquake:
1 Kings 19:12	And after the earthquake came fire: but the Lord was not in the fire: and after the fire came a still and soft voyce.
1 Kings 19:13	And when Eliiah heard it, he couered his face with his mantel, and went out, and stoode in the entring in of ye caue: and behold, there came a voyce vnto him, and sayd, What doest thou here, Eliiah?
1 Kings 19:14	And he answered, I haue bene very ielous for the Lord God of hostes, because the children of Israel haue forsaken thy couenant, cast downe thine altars, and slayne thy Prophets with the sworde, and I onely am left, and they seeke my life to take it away.
1 Kings 19:15	And the Lord said vnto him, Goe, returne by the wildernes vnto Damascus, and when thou commest there, anoint Hazael King ouer Aram.
1 Kings 19:16	And Iehu the sonne of Nimshi shalt thou anoynt King ouer Israel: and Elisha the sonne of Shaphat of Abel Meholah shalt thou anoynt to be Prophet in thy roume.
1 Kings 19:17	And him that escapeth from the sworde of Hazael, shall Iehu slay: and him that escapeth from the sword of Iehu, shall Elisha slay.
1 Kings 19:18	Yet wil I leaue seuen thousand in Israel, euen all the knees that haue not bowed vnto Baal, and euery mouth that hath not kissed him.
1 Kings 19:19	So he departed thence, and found Elisha the sonne of Shaphat who was plowing with twelue yoke of oxen before him, and was with the twelft: and Eliiah went towards him, and cast his mantel vpon him.
1 Kings 19:20	And he left the oxen, and ran after Eliiah, and sayde, Let mee, I pray thee, kisse my father and my mother, and then I wil follow thee. Who answered him, Go, returne: for what haue I done to thee?
1 Kings 19:21	And when he went backe againe from him, he tooke a couple of oxen, and slewe them, and sod their flesh with the instruments of the oxen, and gaue vnto the people, and they did eate: then he arose and went after Eliiah, and ministred vnto him.
1 Kings 20:1	Then Ben-hadad the King of Aram assembled all his armie, and two and thirtie Kings with him, with horses, and charets, and went vp and besieged Samaria, and fought against it.
1 Kings 20:2	And he sent messengers to Ahab King of Israel, into the citie,
1 Kings 20:3	And sayd vnto him, Thus sayth Ben-hadad, Thy siluer and thy golde is mine: also thy women, and thy fayre children are mine.
1 Kings 20:4	And the King of Israel answered, and sayd, My lord King, according to thy saying, I am thine, and all that I haue.
1 Kings 20:5	And when the messengers came againe, they said, Thus commandeth Ben-hadad, and saith, When I shall send vnto thee, and command, thou shalt deliuer me thy siluer and thy golde, and thy women, and thy children,
1 Kings 20:6	Or els I will sende my seruants vnto thee by to morow this time: and they shall search thine house, and the houses of thy seruants: and whatsoeuer is pleasant in thine eyes, they shall take it in their handes, and bring it away.
1 Kings 20:7	Then the King of Israel sent for all the Elders of the land, and sayd, Take heede, I pray you, and see how he seeketh mischiefe: for he sent vnto me for my wiues, and for my children, and for my siluer, and for my golde, and I denyed him not.
1 Kings 20:8	And all the Elders, and all the people sayd to him, Hearken not vnto him, nor consent.
1 Kings 20:9	Wherefore hee sayde vnto the messengers of Ben-hadad, Tell my lorde the King, All that thou didddest sende for to thy seruant at the first time, that I will doe, but this thing I may not do. And the messengers departed, and brought him an answere.
1 Kings 20:10	And Ben-hadad sent vnto him, and sayde, The gods do so to me and more also, if the dust of Samaria be ynough to all the people that follow me, for euery man an handfull.
1 Kings 20:11	And the King of Israel answered, and sayd, Tell him, Let not him that girdeth his harneis, boast himselfe, as he that putteth it off.
1 Kings 20:12	And when he heard that tidings, as he was with the Kings drinking in the pauilions, he sayd vnto his seruants, Bring forth your engines, and they set them against the citie.
1 Kings 20:13	And beholde, there came a Prophet vnto Ahab King of Israel, saying, Thus sayeth the Lord, Hast thou seene all this great multitude? beholde, I will deliuer it into thine hande this day, that thou mayest knowe, that I am the Lord.
1 Kings 20:14	And Ahab sayd, By whome? And he sayde, Thus sayth the Lord, By the seruants of the princes of the prouinces. He sayde againe, Who shall order the battel? And he answered, Thou.
1 Kings 20:15	Then he nombred the seruantes of the princes of the prouinces, and they were two hundreth, two and thirtie: and after them he nombred the whole people of all the children of Israel, euen seuen thousand.
1 Kings 20:16	And they went out at noone: but Ben-hadad did drinke till he was drunken in the tentes, both he and the Kings: for two and thirtie Kings helped him.
1 Kings 20:17	So the seruants of the princes of the prouinces went out first: and Ben-hadad sent out, and they shewed him, saying, There are men come out of Samaria.
1 Kings 20:18	And he sayde, Whether they be come out for peace, take them aliue: or whether they bee come out to fight, take them yet aliue.
1 Kings 20:19	So they came out of the citie, to wit, the seruants of the princes of the prouinces, and the hoste which followed them.
1 Kings 20:20	And they slew euery one his enemie: and the Aramites fled, and Israel pursued them: but Ben-hadad ye King of Aram escaped on an horse with his horsemen.
1 Kings 20:21	And the King of Israel went out, and smote the horses and charets, and with a great slaughter slew he the Aramites.
1 Kings 20:22	(For there had come a Prophet to the King of Israel, and had sayd vnto him, Goe, be of good courage, and consider, and take heede what thou doest: for when the yeere is gone about, the King of Aram wil come vp against thee)
1 Kings 20:23	Then the seruants of the King of Aram said vnto him, Their gods are gods of the moutaines, and therefore they ouercame vs: but let vs fight against them in the playne, and doubtlesse we shall ouercome them.
1 Kings 20:24	And this doe, Take the Kings away, euery one out of his place, and place captaines for them.
1 Kings 20:25	And nomber thy selfe an armie, like the armie that thou hast lost, with such horses, and such charets, and we wil fight against them in the plaine, and doubtlesse we shall ouercome them: and he hearkened vnto their voyce, and did so.
1 Kings 20:26	And after the yeere was gone about, Ben-hadad nombred the Aramites, and went vp to Aphek to fight against Israel.
1 Kings 20:27	And the children of Israel were nombred, and were all assembled and went against them, and the children of Israel pitched before them, like two litle flockes of kiddes: but the Aramites filled the countrey.
1 Kings 20:28	And there came a man of God, and spake vnto the King of Israel, saying, Thus sayeth the Lord, Because the Aramites haue sayd, The Lord is the God of the mountaines, and not God of the valleis, therefore will I deliuer all this great multitude into thine hand, and ye shall know that I am the Lord.
1 Kings 20:29	And they pitched one ouer against the other seuen dayes, and in the seuenth day the battel was ioyned: and the children of Israel slew of the Aramites an hundreth thousand footemen in one day.
1 Kings 20:30	But the rest fled to Aphek into the citie: and there fel a wall vpon seuen and twentie thousand men that were left: and Ben-hadad fled into the citie, and came into a secret chamber.
1 Kings 20:31	And his seruants sayd vnto him, Beholde nowe, we haue heard say that the Kings of the house of Israel are mercifull Kings: we pray thee, let vs put sacke cloth about our loynes, and ropes about our heads, and goe out to the King of Israel: it may be that he will saue thy life.
1 Kings 20:32	Then they gyrded sackecloth about their loynes, and put ropes about their heads, and came to the King of Israel, and sayd, Thy seruant Ben-hadad sayth, I pray thee, let me liue: and he sayd, Is he yet aliue? he is my brother.
1 Kings 20:33	Now the men tooke diliget heede, if they could catch any thing of him, and made haste, and sayd, Thy brother Ben-hadad. And he sayd, Go, bring him. So Ben-hadad came out vnto him, and he caused him to come vp vnto the chariot.
1 Kings 20:34	And Ben-hadad sayd vnto him, The cities, which my father tooke from thy father, I wil restore, and thou shalt make streetes for thee in Damascus, as my father did in Samaria. Then said Ahab, I will let thee goe with this couenant. So he made a couenant with him, and let him goe.
1 Kings 20:35	Then a certaine man of the children of the Prophets sayd vnto his neighbour by the comandement of the Lord, Smite me, I pray thee. But the man refused to smite him.
1 Kings 20:36	Then sayd he vnto him, Because thou hast not obeyed the voyce of the Lord, beholde, as soone as thou art departed from me, a lyon shall slay thee. So when he was departed from him, a lyon found him and slew him.
1 Kings 20:37	Then he founde another man, and sayde, Smite mee, I pray thee. And the man smote him, and in smiting wounded him.
1 Kings 20:38	So the Prophet departed, and wayted for the King by the way, and disguised himselfe with ashes vpon his face.
1 Kings 20:39	And when the King came by, he cried vnto the King, and said, Thy seruant went into the middes of the battel: and beholde, there went away a man, whom another man brought vnto me, and sayd, Keepe this man: if he be lost, and want, thy life shall go for his life, or els thou shalt pay a talent of siluer.
1 Kings 20:40	And as thy seruant had here and there to do, he was gone: And the King of Israel said vnto him, So shall thy iudgement be: thou hast giuen sentence.
1 Kings 20:41	And hee hasted, and tooke the ashes away from his face: and the King of Israel knewe him that he was of the Prophets:
1 Kings 20:42	And he said vnto him, Thus saith the Lord, Because thou hast let goe out of thine handes a man whom I appoynted to dye, thy life shall goe for his life, and thy people for his people.
1 Kings 20:43	And the King of Israel went to his house heauie and in displeasure, and came to Samaria.
1 Kings 21:1	After these things Naboth the Izreelite had a vineyarde in Izreel, hard by the palace of Ahab King of Samaria.
1 Kings 21:2	And Ahab spake vnto Naboth, saying, Giue me thy vineyarde, that I may make mee a garden of herbes thereof, because it is neere by mine house: and I will giue thee for it a better vineyarde then it is: or if it please thee, I will giue thee the worth of it in money.
1 Kings 21:3	And Naboth said to Ahab, The Lord keepe me from giuing the inheritance of my father vnto thee.
1 Kings 21:4	Then Ahab came into his house heauie and in displeasure, because of the word which Naboth the Izreelite had spoken vnto him. for hee had sayde, I will not giue thee the inheritance of my fathers, and he lay vpon his bed, and turned his face and would eate no bread.
1 Kings 21:5	Then Iezebel his wife came to him and said vnto him, Why is thy spirit so sad that thou eatest no bread?
1 Kings 21:6	And he said vnto her, Because I spake vnto Naboth the Izreelite, and sayd vnto him, Giue me thy vineyard for money, or if it please thee, I will giue thee another vineyard for it: but he answered, I wil not giue thee my vineyarde.
1 Kings 21:7	Then Iezebel his wife sayde vnto him, Doest thou nowe gouerne the kingdome of Israel? vp, eate bread, and be of good cheere, I will giue thee the vineyard of Naboth the Izreelite.
1 Kings 21:8	So she wrote letters in Ahabs name, and sealed them with his seale, and sent the letters vnto the Elders, and to the nobles that were in his citie dwelling with Naboth.
1 Kings 21:9	And shee wrote in the letters, saying, Proclaime a fast, and set Naboth among the chiefe of the people,
1 Kings 21:10	And set two wicked men before him, and let them witnesse against him, saying, Thou diddest blaspheme God and the King: then cary him out, and stone him that he may dye.
1 Kings 21:11	And the men of his citie, euen the Elders and gouernours, which dwelt in his citie, did as Iezebel had sent vnto them: as it was written in the letters, which she had sent vnto them.
1 Kings 21:12	They proclaimed a fast, and set Naboth among the chiefe of the people,
1 Kings 21:13	And there came two wicked men, and sate before him: and the wicked men witnessed against Naboth in the presence of the people saying, Naboth did blaspheme God and the King. Then they caried him away out of the citie, and stoned him with stones, that he dyed.
1 Kings 21:14	Then they sent to Iezebel, saying, Naboth is stoned and is dead.
1 Kings 21:15	And when Iezebel heard that Naboth was stoned and was dead, Iezebel sayd to Ahab, Vp, and take possession of the vineyarde of Naboth the Izreelite, which he refused to giue thee for money: for Naboth is not aliue, but is dead.
1 Kings 21:16	And when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, he rose to go downe to the vineyard of Naboth the Izreelite, to take possession of it.
1 Kings 21:17	And the word of the Lord came vnto Eliiah the Tishbite, saying,
1 Kings 21:18	Arise, goe downe to meete Ahab King of Israel, which is in Samaria. loe, he is in the vineyarde of Naboth, whither he is gone downe to take possession of it.
1 Kings 21:19	Therefore shalt thou say vnto him, Thus sayth the Lord, Hast thou killed, and also gotten possession? And thou shalt speake vnto him, saying, Thus sayth the Lord, In the place where dogs licked the blood of Naboth, shall dogs licke euen thy blood also.
1 Kings 21:20	And Ahab sayd to Eliiah, Hast thou found mee, O mine enemie? And he answered, I haue found thee: for thou hast solde thy selfe to worke wickednes in the sight of the Lord.
1 Kings 21:21	Beholde, I will bring euill vpon thee, and wil take away thy posteritie, and wil cut off from Ahab him that pisseth against the wall, as well him that is shut vp, as him that is left in Israel,
1 Kings 21:22	And I wil make thine house like the house of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the sonne of Ahiiah, for the prouocation wherewith thou hast prouoked, and made Israel to sinne.
1 Kings 21:23	And also of Iezebel spake the Lord, saying, The dogs shall eate Iezebel, by the wall of Izreel.
1 Kings 21:24	The dogs shall eate him of Ahabs stocke, that dyeth in the citie: and him that dyeth in the fieldes, shall the foules of the ayre eate.
1 Kings 21:25	(But there was none like Ahab, who did fell him selfe, to worke wickednesse in the sight of the Lord: whom Iezebel his wife prouoked.
1 Kings 21:26	For he did exceeding abominably in following idoles, according to all that the Amorites did, whom the Lord cast out before the children of Israel.)
1 Kings 21:27	Nowe when Ahab heard those wordes, he rent his clothes, and put sackcloth vpon him and fasted, and lay in sackecloth and went softely.
1 Kings 21:28	And the worde of the Lord came to Eliiah the Tishbite, saying,
1 Kings 21:29	Seest thou how Ahab is humbled before me? because he submitteth himselfe before me, I will not bring that euill in his dayes, but in his sonnes dayes wil I bring euill vpon his house.
1 Kings 22:1	And they continued three yeere without warre betweene Aram and Israel.
1 Kings 22:2	And in the third yeere did Iehoshaphat the King of Iudah come downe to ye King of Israel.
1 Kings 22:3	(Then the King of Israel saide vnto his seruants, Knowe yee not that Ramoth Gilead was ours? and wee stay, and take it not out of ye hand of the King of Aram?)
1 Kings 22:4	And he sayde vnto Iehoshaphat, Wilt thou goe with mee to battel against Ramoth Gilead? And Iehoshaphat saide vnto the King of Israel, I am as thou art, my people as thy people, and mine horses as thine horses.
1 Kings 22:5	Then Iehoshaphat saide vnto the King of Israel, Aske counsaile, I pray thee, of the Lord to day.
1 Kings 22:6	Then the King of Israel gathered the prophets vpon a foure hundreth men, and said vnto them, Shal I go against Ramoth Gilead to battel, or shall I let it alone? And they said, Go vp: for ye Lord shall deliuer it into the hands of the King.
1 Kings 22:7	And Iehoshaphat said, Is there here neuer a Prophet of the Lord more, that we might inquire of him?
1 Kings 22:8	And the King of Israel said vnto Iehoshaphat, There is yet one man (Michaiah the sonne of Imlah) by whom we may aske counsel of the Lord, but I hate him: for he doeth not prophecie good vnto me, but euill. And Iehoshaphat sayd, Let not the King say so.
1 Kings 22:9	Then the King of Israel called an Eunuche, and sayde, Call quickely Michaiah the sonne of Imlah.
1 Kings 22:10	And the King of Israel and Iehoshaphat the King of Iudah sate either of them on his throne in their apparell in the voyde place at the entring in of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets prophecied before them.
1 Kings 22:11	And Zidkiiah the sonne of Chenaanah made him hornes of yron, and sayd, Thus sayth the Lord, With these shalt thou push the Aramites, vntill thou hast consumed them.
1 Kings 22:12	And all the prophets prophecied so, saying, Goe vp to Ramoth Gilead, and prosper: for the Lord shall deliuer it into the Kings hand.
1 Kings 22:13	And the messenger that was gone to call Michaiah spake vnto him, saying, Beholde now, the wordes of the prophets declare good vnto the King with one accorde: let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like the worde of one of them, and speake thou good.
1 Kings 22:14	And Michaiah saide, As the Lord liueth, whatsoeuer the Lord sayth vnto me, that will I speake.
1 Kings 22:15	So he came to the King, and the King said vnto him, Michaiah, shall we go against Ramoth Gilead to battel, or shall we leaue off? And he answered him, Goe vp, and prosper: and the Lord shall deliuer it into the hand of the King.
1 Kings 22:16	And the King said vnto him, How oft shall I charge thee, that thou tell me nothing but that which is true in the Name of the Lord?
1 Kings 22:17	Then he said, I sawe all Israel scattered vpon the mountaines, as sheepe that had no shepheard. And the Lord sayde, These haue no master, let euery man returne vnto his house in peace.
1 Kings 22:18	(And the King of Israel saide vnto Iehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee, that he would prophecie no good vnto me, but euill?)
1 Kings 22:19	Againe he said, Heare thou therefore the worde of the Lord. I sawe the Lord sit on his throne, and all the hoste of heauen stood about him on his right hand and on his left hand.
1 Kings 22:20	And the Lord sayd, Who shall entise Ahab that he may go and fall at Ramoth Gilead? And one said on this maner, and another sayd on that maner.
1 Kings 22:21	Then there came forth a spirit, and stoode before the Lord, and sayd, I wil entise him. And the Lord sayd vnto him, Wherewith?
1 Kings 22:22	And he sayd, I will goe out, and be a false spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. Then he sayd, Thou shalt entise him, and shalt also preuayle: goe forth, and doe so.
1 Kings 22:23	Now therefore behold, the Lord hath put a lying spirite in the mouth of all these thy prophets, and the Lord hath appoynted euill against thee.
1 Kings 22:24	Then Zidkiiah the sonne of Chenaanah came neere, and smote Michaiah on the cheeke and sayd, When went the Spirite of the Lord from me, to speake vnto thee?
1 Kings 22:25	And Michaiah saide, Behold, thou shalt see in that day, when thou shalt goe from chamber to chamber to hide thee.
1 Kings 22:26	And the King of Israel sayd, Take Michaiah, and cary him vnto Amon the gouernour of the citie, and vnto Ioash the Kings sonne,
1 Kings 22:27	And say, Thus saith the King, Put this man in the prison house, and feede him with bread of affliction, and with water of affliction, vntill I returne in peace.
1 Kings 22:28	And Michaiah sayde, If thou returne in peace, the Lord hath not spoken by me. And he sayd, Hearken all ye people.
1 Kings 22:29	So the King of Israel and Iehoshaphat the King of Iudah went vp to Ramoth Gilead.
1 Kings 22:30	And the King of Israel sayde to Iehoshaphat, I will change mine apparell, and will enter into the battell, but put thou on thine apparell. And the King of Israel changed himselfe, and went into the battel.
1 Kings 22:31	And the King of Aram commanded his two and thirtie captaines ouer his charets, saying, Fight neither with small, nor great, saue onely against the King of Israel.
1 Kings 22:32	And when the captaines of the charets saw Iehoshaphat, they sayd, Surely it is the King of Israel, and they turned to fight against him: and Iehoshaphat cryed.
1 Kings 22:33	And when the captaines of the charets saw that he was not the King of Israel, they turned backe from him.
1 Kings 22:34	Then a certaine man drewe a bow mightily and smote the King of Israel betweene the ioyntes of his brigandine. Wherefore he sayde vnto his charet man, Turne thine hand and cary me out of the hoste: for I am hurt.
1 Kings 22:35	And the battel encreased that day, and the King stoode still in his charet against the Aramites, and dyed at euen: and the blood ran out of the wound into the middes of the charet.
1 Kings 22:36	And there went a proclamation thorowout the hoste about the going downe of the sunne, saying, Euery man to his citie, and euery man to his owne countrey.
1 Kings 22:37	So the King died, and was brought to Samaria, and they buried the King in Samaria.
1 Kings 22:38	And one washed the charet in the poole of Samaria, and the dogs licked vp his blood (and they washed his armour) according vnto the word of the Lord which he spake.
1 Kings 22:39	Concerning the rest of the actes of Ahab and all that he did, and the yuorie house which he built, and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1 Kings 22:40	So Ahab slept with his fathers, and Ahaziah his sonne reigned in his stead.
1 Kings 22:41	And Iehoshaphat the sonne of Asa began to reigne vpon Iudah in the fourth yeere of Ahab King of Israel.
1 Kings 22:42	Iehoshaphat was fiue and thirty yere olde, when he began to reigne, and reigned fiue and twentie yeere in Ierusalem. And his mothers name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
1 Kings 22:43	And he walked in all the wayes of Asa his father, and declined not therefrom, but did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord. Neuerthelesse the hie places were not taken away: for the people offred still and burnt incense in the hie places.
1 Kings 22:44	And Iehoshaphat made peace with the King of Israel.
1 Kings 22:45	Concerning the rest of the actes of Iehoshaphat, and his worthy deedes that he did, and his battels which he fought, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
1 Kings 22:46	And the Sodomites, which remayned in the dayes of his father Asa, he put cleane out of the land.
1 Kings 22:47	There was then no King in Edom: the deputie was King.
1 Kings 22:48	Iehoshaphat made shippes of Tharshish to sayle to Ophir for golde, but they went not, for the shippes were broken at Ezion Gaber.
1 Kings 22:49	Then sayde Ahaziah the sonne of Ahab vnto Iehoshaphat, Let my seruants goe with thy seruants in the ships, But Iehoshaphat would not.
1 Kings 22:50	And Iehoshaphat did sleepe with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the citie of Dauid his father, and Iehoram his sonne reigned in his stead.
1 Kings 22:51	Ahaziah the sonne of Ahab began to reigne ouer Israel in Samaria, the seuenteenth yeere of Iehoshaphat King of Iudah, and reigned two yeeres ouer Israel.
1 Kings 22:52	But he did euill in the sight of the Lord, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, which made Israel to sinne.
1 Kings 22:53	For he serued Baal and worshipped him, and prouoked the Lord God of Israel vnto wrath, according vnto all that his father had done.

===== BOOK: 1 Peter =====
1 Peter 1:1	PETER an Apostle of IESVS CHRIST, to the strangers that dwell here and there throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia and Bithynia,
1 Peter 1:2	Elect according to the foreknowledge of God ye Father vnto sanctification of ye Spirit, through obedience and sprinkeling of the blood of Iesus Christ: Grace and peace bee multiplied vnto you.
1 Peter 1:3	Blessed bee God, euen the Father of our Lord Iesus Christ, which according to his aboundant mercie hath begotten vs againe vnto a liuely hope by the resurrection of Iesus Christ from the dead,
1 Peter 1:4	To an inheritance immortall and vndefiled, and that withereth not, reserued in heauen for vs,
1 Peter 1:5	Which are kept by the power of God through faith vnto saluation, which is prepared to be shewed in the last time.
1 Peter 1:6	Wherein yee reioyce, though nowe for a season (if neede require) yee are in heauinesse, through manifolde tentations,
1 Peter 1:7	That the triall of your faith, being much more precious then golde that perisheth (though it be tried with fire) might bee founde vnto your praise, and honour and glorie at the appearing of Iesus Christ:
1 Peter 1:8	Whome yee haue not seene, and yet loue him, in whome nowe, though yee see him not, yet doe you beleeue, and reioyce with ioy vnspeakeable and glorious,
1 Peter 1:9	Receiuing the ende of your faith, euen the saluation of your soules.
1 Peter 1:10	Of the which saluation ye Prophets haue inquired and searched, which prophecied of the grace that should come vnto you,
1 Peter 1:11	Searching when or what time the Spirite which testified before of Christ which was in them, shoulde declare the sufferings that should come vnto Christ, and the glorie that shoulde follow.
1 Peter 1:12	Vnto whome it was reueiled, that not vnto themselues, but vnto vs they shoulde minister the things, which are nowe shewed vnto you by them which haue preached vnto you the Gospell by the holy Ghost sent downe from heauen, the which things the Angels desire to beholde.
1 Peter 1:13	Wherefore, girde vp the Ioynes of your minde: bee sober, and trust perfectly on that grace that is brought vnto you, in the reuelation of Iesus Christ,
1 Peter 1:14	As obedient children, not fashioning your selues vnto the former lustes of your ignorance:
1 Peter 1:15	But as hee which hath called you, is holie, so be yee holie in all maner of conuersation;
1 Peter 1:16	Because it is written, Be yee holie, for I am holie.
1 Peter 1:17	And if ye call him Father, which without respect of person iudgeth according to euery mans woorke, passe the time of your dwelling here in feare,
1 Peter 1:18	Knowing that yee were not redeemed with corruptible things, as siluer and golde, from your vaine conuersation, receiued by the traditions of the fathers,
1 Peter 1:19	But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a Lambe vndefiled, and without spot.
1 Peter 1:20	Which was ordeined before the foundation of the world, but was declared in the last times for your sakes,
1 Peter 1:21	Which by his meanes doe beleeue in God that raised him from the dead, and gaue him glorie, that your faith and hope might bee in God,
1 Peter 1:22	Hauing purified your soules in obeying the trueth through the spirite, to loue brotherly without faining, loue one another with a pure heart feruently,
1 Peter 1:23	Being borne anewe, not of mortall seede, but of immortall, by the woorde of God, who liueth and endureth for euer.
1 Peter 1:24	For all flesh is as grasse, and all the glorie of man is as the flower of grasse. The grasse withereth, and the flower falleth away.
1 Peter 1:25	But the worde of the Lord endureth for euer: and this is the woorde which is preached among you.
1 Peter 2:1	Wherefore, laying aside all maliciousnes, and all guile, and dissimulation, and enuie, and all euill speaking,
1 Peter 2:2	As newe borne babes desire that sincere milke of the woorde, that yee may growe thereby,
1 Peter 2:3	Because yee haue tasted that the Lord is bountifull.
1 Peter 2:4	To whome comming as vnto a liuing stone disallowed of men, but chosen of God and precious,
1 Peter 2:5	Yee also as liuely stones, bee made a spirituall house, an holy Priesthoode to offer vp spirituall sacrifices acceptable to God by Iesus Christ.
1 Peter 2:6	Wherefore also it is conteyned in the Scripture, Beholde, I put in Sion a chiefe corner stone, elect and precious: and hee that beleeueth therein, shall not be ashamed.
1 Peter 2:7	Vnto you therefore which beleeue, it is precious: but vnto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner,
1 Peter 2:8	And a stone to stumble at, and a rocke of offence, euen to them which stumble at the woorde, being disobedient, vnto the which thing they were euen ordeined.
1 Peter 2:9	But yee are a chosen generation, a royall Priesthoode, an holy nation, a people set at libertie, that yee shoulde shewe foorth the vertues of him that hath called you out of darkenesse into his marueilous light,
1 Peter 2:10	Which in time past were not a people, yet are nowe the people of God: which in time past were not vnder mercie, but nowe haue obteined mercie.
1 Peter 2:11	Dearely beloued, I beseeche you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstaine from fleshly lusts, which fight against the soule,
1 Peter 2:12	And haue your conuersation honest among the Gentiles, that they which speake euill of you as of euill doers, may by your good woorkes which they shall see, glorifie God in the day of visitation.
1 Peter 2:13	Therefore submit your selues vnto all maner ordinance of man for the Lordes sake, whether it be vnto the King, as vnto the superiour,
1 Peter 2:14	Or vnto gouernours, as vnto them that are sent of him, for the punishment of euill doers, and for the praise of them that doe well.
1 Peter 2:15	For so is the will of God, that by well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of the foolish men,
1 Peter 2:16	As free, and not as hauing the libertie for a cloke of maliciousnesse, but as the seruauntes of God.
1 Peter 2:17	Honour all men: loue brotherly fellowship: feare God: honour the King.
1 Peter 2:18	Seruaunts, be subiect to your masters with all feare, not onely to the good and courteous, but also to the froward.
1 Peter 2:19	For this is thanke worthie, if a man for conscience toward God endure griefe, suffering wrongfully.
1 Peter 2:20	For what praise is it, if when ye be buffeted for your faultes, yee take it paciently? but and if when ye doe well, ye suffer wrong and take it paciently, this is acceptable to God.
1 Peter 2:21	For hereunto ye are called: for Christ also suffred for you, leauing you an ensample that ye should follow his steppes.
1 Peter 2:22	Who did no sinne, neither was there guile found in his mouth.
1 Peter 2:23	Who when hee was reuiled, reuiled not againe: when hee suffered, hee threatned not, but comitted it to him that iudgeth righteously.
1 Peter 2:24	Who his owne selfe bare our sinnes in his body on the tree, that we being dead to sinne, should liue in righteousnesse: by whose stripes ye were healed.
1 Peter 2:25	For ye were as sheepe going astray: but are nowe returned vnto the shepheard and Bishop of your soules.
1 Peter 3:1	Likewise let the wiues bee subiect to their husbands, that euen they which obey not the worde, may without the worde be wonne by the conuersation of the wiues,
1 Peter 3:2	While they beholde your pure conuersation, which is with feare.
1 Peter 3:3	Whose apparelling, let it not be that outwarde, with broyded heare, and golde put about, or in putting on of apparell:
1 Peter 3:4	But let it bee the hidde man of the heart, which consisteth in the incorruption of a meeke and quiet spirite, which is before God a thing much set by.
1 Peter 3:5	For euen after this maner in time past did the holy women, which trusted in God, tire them selues, and were subiect to their husbands.
1 Peter 3:6	As Sara obeyed Abraham, and called him Sir: whose daughters ye are, whiles yee doe well, not being afraide of any terrour.
1 Peter 3:7	Likewise ye husbands, dwel with them as men of knowledge, giuing honour vnto the woman, as vnto the weaker vessell, euen as they which are heires together of the grace of life, that your prayers be not interrupted.
1 Peter 3:8	Finally, be ye all of one minde: one suffer with another: loue as brethren: bee pitifull: bee courteous,
1 Peter 3:9	Not rendring euil for euill, neither rebuke for rebuke: but contrarywise blesse, knowing that ye are thereunto called, that ye should be heires of blessing.
1 Peter 3:10	For if any man long after life, and to see good dayes, let him refraine his tongue from euill, and his lippes that they speake no guile.
1 Peter 3:11	Let him eschew euil, and do good: let him seeke peace, and follow after it.
1 Peter 3:12	For the eyes of the Lord are ouer the righteous, and his eares are open vnto their prayers: and the face of the Lord is against them that do euil.
1 Peter 3:13	And who is it that will harme you, if ye follow that which is good?
1 Peter 3:14	Notwithstanding blessed are ye, if ye suffer for righteousnes sake. Yea, feare not their feare, neither be troubled.
1 Peter 3:15	But sanctifie the Lord God in your hearts: and be ready alwayes to giue an answere to euery man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you, with meekenesse and reuerence,
1 Peter 3:16	Hauing a good coscience, that whe they speake euill of you as of euill doers, they may be ashamed, which slander your good conuersation in Christ.
1 Peter 3:17	For it is better (if the will of God be so) that ye suffer for well doing, then for euil doing.
1 Peter 3:18	For Christ also hath once suffered for sinnes, the iust for the vniust, that he might bring vs to God, and was put to death concerning the flesh, but was quickened by the spirit.
1 Peter 3:19	By the which hee also went, and preached vnto the spirits that are in prison.
1 Peter 3:20	Which were in time passed disobedient, when once the long suffering of God abode in the dayes of Noe, while the Arke was preparing, wherein fewe, that is, eight soules were saued in the water.
1 Peter 3:21	Whereof the baptisme that nowe is, answering that figure, (which is not a putting away of the filth of the flesh, but a confident demaunding which a good conscience maketh to God) saueth vs also by the resurrection of Iesus Christ,
1 Peter 3:22	Which is at the right hand of God, gone into heauen, to whom the Angels, and Powers, and might are subiect.
1 Peter 4:1	Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for vs in the flesh, arme your selues likewise with the same minde, which is, that he which hath suffered in the flesh, hath ceased from sinne,
1 Peter 4:2	That he hence forward should liue (as much time as remaineth in the flesh) not after the lusts of men, but after the will of God.
1 Peter 4:3	For it is sufficient for vs that we haue spet the time past of ye life, after the lust of the Gentiles, walking in wantonnes, lustes, drunkennes, in gluttonie, drinkings, and in abominable idolatries.
1 Peter 4:4	Wherein it seemeth to them strange, that yee runne not with them vnto the same excesse of riot: therefore speake they euill of you,
1 Peter 4:5	Which shall giue accounts to him, that is readie to iudge quicke and dead.
1 Peter 4:6	For vnto this purpose was the Gospell preached also vnto the dead, that they might bee condemned, according to men in the flesh, but might liue according to God in the spirit.
1 Peter 4:7	Now the ende of all things is at hand. Be ye therefore sober, and watching in prayer.
1 Peter 4:8	But aboue all thinges haue feruent loue among you: for loue shall couer the multitude of sinnes.
1 Peter 4:9	Be ye harberous one to another, without grudging.
1 Peter 4:10	Let euery man as hee hath receiued the gift, minister the same one to another, as good disposers of the manifolde grace of God.
1 Peter 4:11	If any man speake, let him speake as the wordes of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the abilitie which God ministreth, that God in al things may be glorified through Iesus Christ, to whome is prayse and dominion for euer, and euer, Amen.
1 Peter 4:12	Dearely beloued, thinke it not strange concerning the firie triall, which is among you to proue you, as though some strange thing were come vnto you:
1 Peter 4:13	But reioyce, in asmuch as ye are partakers of Christs suffrings, that when his glory shall appeare, ye may be glad and reioyce.
1 Peter 4:14	If yee be railed vpon for the Name of Christ, blessed are ye: for the spirit of glory, and of God resteth vpon you: which on their part is euill spoken of: but on your part is glorified.
1 Peter 4:15	But let none of you suffer as a murtherer, or as a thiefe, or an euil doer, or as a busibodie in other mens matters.
1 Peter 4:16	But if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not bee ashamed: but let him glorifie God in this behalfe.
1 Peter 4:17	For the time is come, that iudgement must beginne at the house of God. If it first beginne at vs, what shall the ende be of them which obey not the Gospel of God?
1 Peter 4:18	And if the righteous scarcely bee saued, where shall the vngodly and the sinner appeare?
1 Peter 4:19	Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God, commit their soules to him in well doing, as vnto a faithfull Creator.
1 Peter 5:1	The elders which are among you, I beseech which am also an elder, and a witnesse of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shalbe reueiled,
1 Peter 5:2	Feede the flocke of God, which dependeth vpon you, caring for it not by constraint, but willingly: not for filthy lucre, but of a ready minde:
1 Peter 5:3	Not as though ye were lords ouer Gods heritage, but that yee may bee ensamples to the flocke.
1 Peter 5:4	And when that chiefe shepheard shall appeare, ye shall receiue an incorruptible crowne of glory.
1 Peter 5:5	Likewise ye yonger, submit your selues vnto the elders, and submit your selues euery man, one to another: decke your selues inwardly in lowlinesse of minde: for God resisteth the proude, and giueth grace to the humble.
1 Peter 5:6	Humble your selues therefore vnder the mightie hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time.
1 Peter 5:7	Cast all your care on him: for he careth for you.
1 Peter 5:8	Be sober, and watch: for your aduersarie the deuil as a roaring lyon walketh about, seeking whom he may deuoure:
1 Peter 5:9	Whom resist stedfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren which are in the world.
1 Peter 5:10	And the God of all grace, which hath called vs vnto his eternall glory by Christ Iesus, after that ye haue suffered a litle, make you perfite, confirme, strengthen and stablish you.
1 Peter 5:11	To him be glory and dominion for euer and euer, Amen.
1 Peter 5:12	By Syluanus a faithfull brother vnto you, as I suppose, haue I written briefly, exhorting and testifying how that this is the true grace of God, wherein ye stand.
1 Peter 5:13	The Church that is at Babylon elected together with you, saluteth you, and Marcus my sonne.
1 Peter 5:14	Greete yee one another with the kisse of loue. Peace be with you all which are in Christ Iesus, Amen.

===== BOOK: 1 Samuel =====
1 Samuel 1:1	There was a man of one of the two Ramathaim Zophim, of mount Ephraim, whose name was Elkanah the sonne of Ieroham, the sonne of Elihu, the sonne of Tohu, the sonne of Zuph, an Ephrathite:
1 Samuel 1:2	And he had two wiues: the name of one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah: and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
1 Samuel 1:3	And this man went vp out of his citie euery yeere, to worship and to sacrifice vnto the Lord of hostes in Shiloh, where were the two sonnes of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas Priests of the Lord.
1 Samuel 1:4	And on a day, when Elkanah sacrificed, he gaue to Peninnah his wife and to all her sonnes and daughters portions,
1 Samuel 1:5	But vnto Hannah he gaue a worthy portion: for he loued Hannah, and the Lord had made her barren.
1 Samuel 1:6	And her aduersarie vexed her sore, forasmuch as she vpbraided her, because the Lord had made her barren.
1 Samuel 1:7	(And so did he yeere by yeere) and as oft as she went vp to the house of the Lord, thus she vexed her, that she wept and did not eate.
1 Samuel 1:8	Then sayd Elkanah her husband to her, Hannah, why weepest thou? and why eatest thou not? and why is thine heart troubled? am not I better to thee then ten sonnes?
1 Samuel 1:9	So Hannah rose vp after that they had eaten and drunke in Shiloh (and Eli the Priest sate vpon a stoole by one of the postes of the Temple of the Lord)
1 Samuel 1:10	And she was troubled in her minde, and prayed vnto the Lord, and wept sore:
1 Samuel 1:11	Also she vowed a vowe, and sayd, O Lord of hostes, if thou wilt looke on the trouble of thine handmaide, and remember me, and not forget thine handmaide, but giue vnto thine handmaide a manchilde, then I will giue him vnto the Lord all the dayes of his life, and there shall no rasor come vpon his head.
1 Samuel 1:12	And as she continued praying before the Lord, Eli marked her mouth.
1 Samuel 1:13	For Hannah spake in her heart: her lips did moue onely, but her voyce was not heard: therefore Eli thought she had bene drunken.
1 Samuel 1:14	And Eli sayde vnto her, Howe long wilt thou be drunken? Put away thy drunkennesse from thee.
1 Samuel 1:15	Then Hannah answered and sayd, Nay my lord, but I am a woman troubled in spirit: I haue drunke neither wine nor strong drinke, but haue powred out my soule before the Lord.
1 Samuel 1:16	Count not thine handmaide for a wicked woman: for of the abundance of my complaint and my griefe haue I spoken hitherto.
1 Samuel 1:17	Then Eli answered, and sayd, Go in peace, and the God of Israel graunt thy petition that thou hast asked of him.
1 Samuel 1:18	She sayd againe, Let thine handmayd finde grace in thy sight: so the woman went her way, and did eate, and looked no more sad.
1 Samuel 1:19	Then they rose vp early, and worshipped before the Lord, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah. Nowe Elkanah knewe Hannah his wife, and the Lord remembred her.
1 Samuel 1:20	For in processe of time Hannah conceiued, and bare a sonne, and she called his name Samuel, Because, said she, I haue asked him of the Lord.
1 Samuel 1:21	So the man Elkanah and all his house went vp to offer vnto the Lord the yeerely sacrifice, and his vowe:
1 Samuel 1:22	But Hannah went not vp: for she sayd vnto her husband, I will tarie vntill the childe be weined, then I will bring him that hee may appeare before the Lord, and there abide for euer.
1 Samuel 1:23	And Elkanah her husband sayd vnto her, Do what seemeth thee best: tarie vntill thou hast weined him: only the Lord accomplish his word. So the woman abode, and gaue her sonne sucke vntill she weined him.
1 Samuel 1:24	And when she had weined him, she tooke him with her with three bullockes and an Ephah of floure and a bottell of wine, and brought him vnto the house of the Lord in Shiloh, and the childe was yong.
1 Samuel 1:25	And they slewe a bullocke, and brought the childe to Eli.
1 Samuel 1:26	And she said, Oh my Lord, as thy soule liueth, my lord, I am the woman that stoode with thee here praying vnto the Lord.
1 Samuel 1:27	I prayed for this childe, and the Lord hath giuen me my desire which I asked of him.
1 Samuel 1:28	Therefore also I haue giuen him vnto the Lord: as long as he liueth hee shalbe giuen vnto the Lord: and he worshipped the Lord there.
1 Samuel 2:1	And Hannah prayed, and said, Mine heart reioyceth in the Lord, mine horne is exalted in the Lord: my mouth is enlarged ouer mine enemies, because I reioyce in thy saluation.
1 Samuel 2:2	There is none holy as the Lord: yea, there is none besides thee, and there is no god like our God.
1 Samuel 2:3	Speake no more presumptuously: let not arrogancie come out of your mouth: for the Lord is a God of knowledge, and by him enterprises are established.
1 Samuel 2:4	The bow and the mightie men are broken, and the weake haue girded themselues with strength.
1 Samuel 2:5	They that were full, are hired foorth for bread, and the hungrie are no more hired, so that the barren hath borne seuen: and shee that had many children, is feeble.
1 Samuel 2:6	The Lord killeth and maketh aliue: bringeth downe to the graue and raiseth vp.
1 Samuel 2:7	The Lord maketh poore and maketh rich: bringeth lowe, and exalteth.
1 Samuel 2:8	He raiseth vp ye poore out of the dust, and lifteth vp the begger from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherite the seate of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the Lordes, and he hath set the world vpon them.
1 Samuel 2:9	Hee will keepe the feete of his Saintes, and the wicked shall keepe silence in darkenes: for in his owne might shall no man be strong.
1 Samuel 2:10	The Lordes aduersaries shall be destroyed, and out of heauen shall he thunder vpon them: the Lord shall iudge the endes of the worlde, and shall giue power vnto his King, and exalt the horne of his Anoynted.
1 Samuel 2:11	And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house, and the childe did minister vnto the Lord before Eli the Priest.
1 Samuel 2:12	Now the sonnes of Eli were wicked men, and knewe not the Lord.
1 Samuel 2:13	For the Priestes custome towarde the people was this: when any man offered sacrifice, the Priestes boy came, while the flesh was seething, and a fleshhooke with three teeth, in his hand,
1 Samuel 2:14	And thrust it into the kettle, or into the caldron, or into the panne, or into the potte: all that the fleshhooke brought vp, the Priest tooke for himselfe: thus they did vnto all the Israelites, that came thither to Shiloh.
1 Samuel 2:15	Yea, before they burnt the fat, the priests boy came and saide to the man that offered, Giue me flesh to rost for the priest: for he wil not haue sodden flesh of thee, but rawe.
1 Samuel 2:16	And if any man saide vnto him, Let them burne the fatte according to the custome, then take as much as thine heart desireth: then hee would answere, No, but thou shalt giue it nowe: and if thou wilt not, I will take it by force.
1 Samuel 2:17	Therefore the sinne of the yong men was very great before the Lord: for men abhorred the offering of the Lord.
1 Samuel 2:18	Now Samuel being a yong childe ministred before the Lord, girded with a linen Ephod.
1 Samuel 2:19	And his mother made him a litle coat, and brought it to him from yeere to yeere, when she came vp with her husband, to offer the yerely sacrifice.
1 Samuel 2:20	And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, The Lord giue thee seede of this woman, for the petition that she asked of the Lord: and they departed vnto their place.
1 Samuel 2:21	And the Lord visited Hannah, so that she conceiued, and bare three sonnes, and two daughters. And the childe Samuel grewe before the Lord.
1 Samuel 2:22	So Eli was very olde, and heard all that his sonnes did vnto all Israel, and howe they laye with the women that assembled at the doore of the tabernacle of the Congregation.
1 Samuel 2:23	And hee saide vnto them, Why doe ye such things? for of all this people I heare euill reportes of you.
1 Samuel 2:24	Do no more, my sonnes, for it is no good report that I heare, which is, that ye make the Lords people to trespasse.
1 Samuel 2:25	If one man sinne against another, the Iudge shall iudge it: but if a man sinne against the Lord, who will pleade for him? Notwithstanding they obeyed not the voyce of their father, because the Lord would slay them.
1 Samuel 2:26	(Nowe the childe Samuel profited and grewe, and was in fauour both with the Lord and also with men)
1 Samuel 2:27	And there came a man of God vnto Eli, and said vnto him, Thus saith the Lord, Did not I plainely appeare vnto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in Pharaohs house?
1 Samuel 2:28	And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my Priest, to offer vpon mine altar, and to burne incense, and to weare an Ephod before me, and I gaue vnto the house of thy father all the offrings made by fire of the children of Israel.
1 Samuel 2:29	Wherefore haue you kicked against my sacrifice and mine offering, which I commanded in my Tabernacle, and honourest thy children aboue mee, to make your selues fatte of the first fruites of all the offerings of Israel my people?
1 Samuel 2:30	Wherefore the Lord God of Israel saith, I saide, that thine house and the house of thy father should walke before mee for euer: but nowe the Lord saith, It shall not be so: for them that honour me, I will honour, and they that despise me, shall be despised.
1 Samuel 2:31	Beholde, the dayes come, that I will cut off thine arme, and the arme of thy fathers house, that there shall not be an olde man in thine house.
1 Samuel 2:32	And thou shalt see thine enemie in the habitation of the Lord in all thinges wherewith God shall blesse Israel, and there shall not be an olde man in thine house for euer.
1 Samuel 2:33	Neuerthelesse, I will not destroy euery one of thine from mine altar, to make thine eyes to faile, and to make thine heart sorowfull: and all ye multitude of thine house shall die when they be men.
1 Samuel 2:34	And this shalbe a signe vnto thee, that shall come vpon thy two sonnes Hophni and Phinehas: in one day they shall die both.
1 Samuel 2:35	And I will stirre me vp a faithfull Priest, that shall do according to mine heart and according to my minde: and I wil build him a sure house, and he shall walke before mine Anointed for euer.
1 Samuel 2:36	And all that are left in thine house, shall come and bowe downe to him for a piece of siluer and a morsell of bread, and shall say, Appoint me, I pray thee, to one of the priestes offices, that I may eate a morsell of bread.
1 Samuel 3:1	Nowe the childe Samuel ministred vnto the Lord before Eli: and the word of the Lord was precious in those dayes: for there was no manifest vision.
1 Samuel 3:2	And at that time, as Eli lay in his place, his eyes began to waxe dimme that he could not see.
1 Samuel 3:3	And yet the light of God went out, Samuel slept in the temple of the Lord, where the Arke of God was.
1 Samuel 3:4	Then the Lord called Samuel: and hee said, Here I am.
1 Samuel 3:5	And he ranne vnto Eli, and said, Here am I, for thou calledst me. But he said, I called thee not: goe againe and sleepe. And he went and slept.
1 Samuel 3:6	And the Lord called once againe, Samuel. And Samuel arose, and went to Eli, and said, I am here: for thou diddest call me. And he answered, I called thee not, my sonne: go againe and sleepe.
1 Samuel 3:7	Thus did Samuel, before hee knewe the Lord, and before the word of the Lord was reueiled vnto him.
1 Samuel 3:8	And the Lord called Samuel againe the thirde time: and he arose, and went to Eli, and said, I am here: for thou hast called me. Then Eli perceiued that the Lord had called the childe.
1 Samuel 3:9	Therefore Eli saide vnto Samuel, Goe and sleepe: and if he call thee, then say, Speake Lord, for thy seruant heareth. So Samuel went, and slept in his place.
1 Samuel 3:10	And the Lord came, and stoode, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speake, for thy seruant heareth.
1 Samuel 3:11	Then the Lord said to Samuel, Beholde, I wil doe a thing in Israel, whereof whosoeuer shall heare, his two eares shall tingle.
1 Samuel 3:12	In that day I will raise vp against Eli all things which I haue spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an ende.
1 Samuel 3:13	And I haue tolde him that I will iudge his house for euer, for the iniquitie which hee knoweth, because his sonnes ranne into a slaunder, and he stayed them not.
1 Samuel 3:14	Nowe therefore I haue sworne vnto the house of Eli, that the wickednes of Elis house, shall not be purged with sacrifice nor offring for euer.
1 Samuel 3:15	Afterward Samuel slept vntil the morning, and opened the doores of the house of the Lord, and Samuel feared to shewe Eli the vision.
1 Samuel 3:16	Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel my sonne. And he answered, Here I am.
1 Samuel 3:17	Then he said, What is it, that the Lord said vnto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from mee. God doe so to thee, and more also, if thou hide any thing from me, of all that he said vnto thee.
1 Samuel 3:18	So Samuel tolde him euery whit, and hid nothing from him. Then hee said, It is the Lord: let him do what seemeth him good.
1 Samuel 3:19	And Samuel grew, and the Lord was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground.
1 Samuel 3:20	And all Israel from Dan to Beer-sheba knew that faithfull Samuel was the Lordes Prophet.
1 Samuel 3:21	And the Lord appeared againe in Shiloh: for the Lord reueiled himselfe to Samuel in Shiloh by his word.
1 Samuel 4:1	And Samuel spake vnto all Israel: and Israel went out against the Philistims to battel and pitched beside Eben-ezer: and the Philistims pitched in Aphek.
1 Samuel 4:2	And the Philistims put themselues in aray against Israel: and when they ioyned the battell, Israel was smitten downe before the Philistims: who slewe of the armie in the fielde about foure thousand men.
1 Samuel 4:3	So when the people were come into the campe, the Elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath the Lord smitten vs this day before ye Philistims? let vs bring the Arke of the couenant of the Lord out of Shiloh vnto vs, that when it commeth among vs, it may saue vs out of the hande of our enemies.
1 Samuel 4:4	Then the people sent to Shiloh, and brought from thence the Arke of the couenant of the Lord of hostes, who dwelleth betweene the Cherubims: and there were the two sonnes of Eli, Hophni, and Phinehas, with the Arke of the couenant of God.
1 Samuel 4:5	And when the Arke of the couenant of the Lord came into the hoste, all Israel shouted a mightie shoute, so that the earth rang againe.
1 Samuel 4:6	And when the Philistims heard the noyse of the shoute, they said, What meaneth the sound of this mightie shoute in the host of the Ebrewes? and they vnderstoode, that the Arke of the Lord was come into the hoste.
1 Samuel 4:7	And the Philistims were afraide, and saide, God is come into the hoste: therefore saide they, Wo vnto vs: for it hath not bene so heretofore.
1 Samuel 4:8	Wo vnto vs, who shall deliuer vs out of the hande of these mightie Gods? these are the Gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wildernes.
1 Samuel 4:9	Be strong and play the men, O Philistims, that ye be not seruants vnto the Ebrewes, as they haue serued you: be valiant therefore, and fight.
1 Samuel 4:10	And the Philistims fought, and Israel was smitten downe, and fled euery man into his tent: and there was an exceeding great slaughter: for there fell of Israel thirtie thousand footemen.
1 Samuel 4:11	And the Arke of God was taken, and the two sonnes of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas died.
1 Samuel 4:12	And there ranne a man of Beniamin out of the armie, and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes rent, and earth vpon his head.
1 Samuel 4:13	And when hee came, loe, Eli sate vpon a seate by the wayside, wayting: for his heart feared for the Arke of God and when the man came into the citie to tell it, all the citie cried out.
1 Samuel 4:14	And when Eli heard the noyse of the crying, he sayd, What meaneth this noyse of the tumult? and the man came in hastily, and tolde Eli.
1 Samuel 4:15	(Nowe Eli was fourescore and eighteene yeere olde, and his eyes were dimme that hee could not see)
1 Samuel 4:16	And the man sayd vnto Eli, I came from the armie, and I fled this day out of the hoste: and he sayd, What thing is done, my sonne?
1 Samuel 4:17	Then the messenger answered and sayd, Israel is fled before the Philistims, and there hath bene also a great slaughter among the people: and moreouer thy two sonnes, Hophni and Phinehas are dead, and the Arke of God is taken.
1 Samuel 4:18	And when he had made mention of the Arke of God, Eli fell from his seate backward by the side of the gate, and his necke was broken, and he dyed: for he was an olde man and heauie: and he had iudged Israel fourtie yeeres.
1 Samuel 4:19	And his daughter in lawe Phinehas wife was with childe neere her trauell: and when she heard the report that the Arke of God was taken, and that her father in lawe and her husband were dead, she bowed her selfe, and trauailed: for her paines came vpon her.
1 Samuel 4:20	And about the time of her death, the women that stoode about her, sayd vnto her, Feare not: for thou hast borne a sonne: but she answered not, nor regarded it.
1 Samuel 4:21	And she named the childe Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed from Israel, because the Arke of God was taken, and because of her father in lawe and her husband.
1 Samuel 4:22	She sayde againe, The glory is departed from Israel: for the Arke of God is taken.
1 Samuel 5:1	Then the Philistims tooke the Arke of God and caried it from Eben-ezer vnto Ashdod,
1 Samuel 5:2	Euen the Philistims tooke ye Arke of God, and brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.
1 Samuel 5:3	And when they of Ashdod rose the next day in the morning, beholde, Dagon was fallen vpon his face on the ground before the Arke of the Lord, and they tooke vp Dagon, and set him in his place againe.
1 Samuel 5:4	Also they rose vp earely in the morning the next day, and beholde, Dagon was fallen vpon his face on the ground before the Arke of the Lord, and the head of Dagon and the two palmes of his hands were cut off vpon the thresholde: onely the stumpe of Dagon was left to him.
1 Samuel 5:5	Therefore the Priests of Dagon, and all that come into Dagons house tread not on the thresholde of Dagon in Ashdod, vnto this day.
1 Samuel 5:6	But the hand of the Lord was heauie vpon them of Ashdod, and destroyed them, and smote them with the emerods, both Ashdod, and the coastes thereof.
1 Samuel 5:7	And when the men of Ashdod sawe this, they sayd, Let not the Arke of the God of Israel abide with vs: for his hand is sore vpon vs and vpon Dagon our god.
1 Samuel 5:8	They sent therefore and gathered all the princes of the Philistims vnto them, and sayde, What shall we doe with the Arke of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the Arke of the God of Israel be caried about vnto Gath: and they caried the Arke of the God of Israel about.
1 Samuel 5:9	And when they had caried it about, the hand of the Lord was against the citie with a very great destruction, and he smote the men of the citie both small and great, and they had emerods in their secret partes.
1 Samuel 5:10	Therefore they sent the Arke of God to Ekron: and assoone as the Arke of God came to Ekron, the Ekronites cryed out, saying, They haue brought the Arke of the God of Israel to vs to slay vs and our people.
1 Samuel 5:11	Therefore they sent, and gathered together all the princes of the Philistims and sayd, Sende away the Arke of the God of Israel, and let it returne to his owne place, that it slay vs not and our people: for there was a destruction and death throughout all the citie, and the hand of God was very sore there.
1 Samuel 5:12	And the men that dyed not, were smitten with the emerods: and the cry of the citie went vp to heauen.
1 Samuel 6:1	So the Arke of the Lord was in the countrey of the Philistims seuen moneths.
1 Samuel 6:2	And the Philistims called the priests and the soothsayers, saying, What shall we doe with the Arke of the Lord? tell vs wherewith we shall send it home againe.
1 Samuel 6:3	And they sayd, If you send away the Arke of the God of Israel, send it not away emptie, but giue vnto it a sinne offering: then shall ye be healed, and it shall be knowen to you, why his hand departeth not from you.
1 Samuel 6:4	Then sayd they, What shalbe the sinne offring, which we shall giue vnto it? And they answered, Fiue golden emerods and fiue golden mise, according to the number of the princes of the Philistims: for one plague was on you all, and on your princes.
1 Samuel 6:5	Wherefore ye shall make the similitudes of your emerods, and the similitudes of your mise that destroy the land: so ye shall giue glory vnto the God of Israel, that he may take his hand from you, and from your gods, and from your land.
1 Samuel 6:6	Wherefore then should ye harden your hearts, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he wrought wonderfully among them, did they not let them goe, and they departed?
1 Samuel 6:7	Now therefore make a new cart, and take two milch kine, on whome there hath come no yoke: and tye the kine to the cart, and bring the calues home from them.
1 Samuel 6:8	Then take the Arke of the Lord, and set it vpon the cart, and put the iewels of gold which ye giue it for a sinne offering in a coffer by the side thereof, and send it away, that it may go.
1 Samuel 6:9	And take heede, if it goe vp by the way of his owne coast to Beth-shemesh, it is he that did vs this great euill: but if not, we shall know then, that it is not his hand that smote vs, but it was a chance that happened vs.
1 Samuel 6:10	And the men did so: for they tooke two kine that gaue milke, and tied them to the cart, and shut the calues at home.
1 Samuel 6:11	So they set the Arke of the Lord vpon the cart, and the coffer with the mise of golde, and with the similitudes of their emerods.
1 Samuel 6:12	And the kine went the streight way to Beth-shemesh, and kept one path and lowed as they went, and turned neither to the right hand nor to the left: also the Princes of the Philistims went after them, vnto the borders of Beth-shemesh.
1 Samuel 6:13	Nowe they of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheate haruest in the valley, and they lift vp their eyes, and spied the Arke, and reioyced when they sawe it.
1 Samuel 6:14	And the cart came into the fielde of Ioshua a Beth-shemite, and stood still there. There was also a great stone, and they claue the wood of the cart, and offered the kine for a burnt offring vnto the Lord.
1 Samuel 6:15	And the Leuites tooke downe the Arke of the Lord, and the coffer that was with it, wherein the iewels of golde were, and put them on the great stone, and the men of Beth-shemesh offred burnt offring, and sacrificed sacrifices that same day vnto the Lord.
1 Samuel 6:16	And when the fiue Princes of ye Philistims had seene it, they returned to Ekron the same day.
1 Samuel 6:17	So these are the golden emerods, which the Philistims gaue for a sinne offering to the Lord: for Ashdod one, for Gaza one, for Askelon one, for Gath one, and for Ekron one,
1 Samuel 6:18	And golden mise, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistims, belonging to the fiue princes, both of walled townes, and of townes vnwalled, vnto the great stone of Abel, whereon they set the Arke of the Lord: which stone remaineth vnto this day in the fielde of Ioshua the Beth-shemite.
1 Samuel 6:19	And hee smote of the men of Beth-shemesh, because they had looked in the Arke of the Lord: he slew euen among the people fiftie thousand men and three score and ten men. and the people lamented, because the Lord had slaine the people with so great a slaughter.
1 Samuel 6:20	Wherefore the men of Beth-shemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy Lord God? and to whom shall he go from vs?
1 Samuel 6:21	And they sent messengers to the inhabitans of Kiriath-iearim, saying, The Philistims haue brought againe the Arke of the Lord: come ye downe and take it vp to you.
1 Samuel 7:1	Then the men of Kiriath-iearim came, and tooke vp the Arke of the Lord, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill: and they sanctified Eleazar his sonne, to keepe the Arke of the Lord.
1 Samuel 7:2	(For while the Arke abode in Kiriath-iearim, the time was long, for it was twentie yeeres) and al the house of Israel lamented after ye Lord.
1 Samuel 7:3	Then Samuel spake vnto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye be come againe vnto the Lord with all your heart, put away the strange gods from among you, and Ashtaroth, and direct your hearts vnto the Lord, and serue him only, and he shall deliuer you out of the hand of ye Philistims.
1 Samuel 7:4	Then the children of Israel did put away Baalim and Ashtaroth, and serued the Lord onely.
1 Samuel 7:5	And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpeh, and I will pray for you vnto the Lord.
1 Samuel 7:6	And they gathered together to Mizpeh, and drewe water and powred it out before the Lord, and fasted the same day, and sayd there, We haue sinned against the Lord. And Samuel iudged the children of Israel in Mizpeh.
1 Samuel 7:7	When the Philistims heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpeh, the princes of the Philistims went vp against Israel: and when the children of Israel heard that, they were afraide of the Philistims.
1 Samuel 7:8	And the children of Israel sayd to Samuel, Cease not to crie vnto the Lord our God for vs, that hee may saue vs out of the hand of the Philistims.
1 Samuel 7:9	Then Samuel tooke a sucking lambe, and offered it all together for a burnt offering vnto the Lord, and Samuel cryed vnto the Lord for Israel, and the Lord heard him.
1 Samuel 7:10	And as Samuel offered the burnt offering, the Philistims came to fight against Israel: but the Lord thundred with a great thunder that day vpon the Philistims, and scattered them: so they were slaine before Israel.
1 Samuel 7:11	And the men of Israel went from Mizpeh and pursued the Philistims, and smote them vntill they came vnder Beth-car.
1 Samuel 7:12	Then Samuel tooke a stone and pitched it betweene Mizpeh and Shen, and called the name thereof, Eben-ezer, and he sayd, Hitherto hath the Lord holpen vs.
1 Samuel 7:13	So the Philistims were brought vnder, and they came no more againe into the coastes of Israel: and the hand of the Lord was against the Philistims all the dayes of Samuel.
1 Samuel 7:14	Also the cities which the Philistims had taken from Israel, were restored to Israel, from Ekron euen to Gath: and Israel deliuered the coastes of the same out of the hands of the Philistims: and there was peace betweene Israel and the Amorites.
1 Samuel 7:15	And Samuel iudged Israel all the dayes of his life,
1 Samuel 7:16	And went about yeere by yere to Beth-el, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and iudged Israel in all those places.
1 Samuel 7:17	Afterward hee returned to Ramah: for there was his house, and there he iudged Israel: also he built an altar there vnto the Lord.
1 Samuel 8:1	When Samuel was nowe become olde, he made his sonnes Iudges ouer Israel.
1 Samuel 8:2	(And the name of his eldest sonne was Ioel, and the name of the second Abiah) euen Iudges in Beer-sheba.
1 Samuel 8:3	And his sonnes walked not in his wayes, but turned aside after lucre, and tooke rewards, and peruerted the iudgement.
1 Samuel 8:4	Wherefore all the Elders of Israel gathered them together, and came to Samuel vnto Ramah,
1 Samuel 8:5	And said vnto him, Beholde, thou art olde, and thy sonnes walke not in thy wayes: make vs nowe a King to iudge vs like all nations.
1 Samuel 8:6	But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Giue vs a King to iudge vs: and Samuel prayed vnto the Lord.
1 Samuel 8:7	And the Lord said vnto Samuel, Heare the voyce of the people in all that they shall say vnto thee: for they haue not cast thee away, but they haue cast me away, that I should not reigne ouer the.
1 Samuel 8:8	As they haue euer done since I brought them out of Egypt euen vnto this day, (and haue forsaken me, and serued other gods) euen so doe they vnto thee.
1 Samuel 8:9	Nowe therefore hearken vnto their voyce: howbeit yet testifie vnto them, and shewe them the maner of ye King that shall reigne ouer them.
1 Samuel 8:10	So Samuel told all the wordes of the Lord vnto the people that asked a King of him.
1 Samuel 8:11	And he saide, This shall be the maner of the King that shall reigne ouer you: he will take your sonnes, and appoint them to his charets, and to be his horsemen, and some shall runne before his charet.
1 Samuel 8:12	Also he will make them his captaines ouer thousands, and captaines ouer fifties, and to eare his ground, and to reape his haruest, and to make instruments of warre, and the thinges that serue for his charets.
1 Samuel 8:13	He will also take your daughters and make them apoticaries, and cookes, and bakers.
1 Samuel 8:14	And he will take your fieldes, and your vineyardes, and your best Oliue trees, and giue them to his seruants.
1 Samuel 8:15	And he will take the tenth of your seede, and of your vineyards, and giue it to his Eunuches, and to his seruants.
1 Samuel 8:16	And he will take your men seruants, and your maide seruants, and the chiefe of your yong men, and your asses, and put them to his worke.
1 Samuel 8:17	He will take the tenth of your sheepe, and ye shall be his seruants.
1 Samuel 8:18	And ye shall crie out at that day, because of your King, whom ye haue chosen you, and the Lord will not heare you at that day.
1 Samuel 8:19	But the people would not heare the voyce of Samuel, but did say, Nay, but there shall be a King ouer vs.
1 Samuel 8:20	And we also will be like all other nations, and our King shall iudge vs, and goe out before vs, and fight our battels.
1 Samuel 8:21	Therefore when Samuel heard all ye wordes of ye people, he rehearsed the in ye eares of ye Lord.
1 Samuel 8:22	And the Lord saide to Samuel, Hearken vnto their voyce, and make them a King. And Samuel said vnto the men of Israel, Goe euery man vnto his citie.
1 Samuel 9:1	There was nowe a man of Beniamin, mightie in power named Kish, the sonne of Abiel, the sonne of Zeror, the sonne of Bechorath, the sonne of Aphiah, the sonne of a man of Iemini.
1 Samuel 9:2	And he had a sonne called Saul, a goodly yong man and a faire: so that among the children of Israel there was none goodlier then he: from the shoulders vpwarde he was hier then any of the people.
1 Samuel 9:3	And the asses of Kish Sauls father were lost: therefore Kish said to Saul his sonne, Take nowe one of the seruants with thee, and arise, goe, and seeke the asses.
1 Samuel 9:4	So he passed through mount Ephraim, and went through the lande of Shalishah, but they found them not. Then they went through the land of Shalim, and there they were not: he went also through ye land of Iemini, but they found the not.
1 Samuel 9:5	When they came to the lande of Zuph, Saul saide vnto his seruant that was with him, Come and let vs returne, lest my father leaue the care of asses, and take thought for vs.
1 Samuel 9:6	And he said vnto him, Behold nowe, in this citie is a man of God, and he is an honorable man: all that he saith commeth to passe: let vs nowe goe thither, if so be that he can shewe vs what way we may goe.
1 Samuel 9:7	Then saide Saul to his seruant, Well then, let vs goe: but what shall we bring vnto the man? For the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is no present to bring to the man of God: what haue we?
1 Samuel 9:8	And the seruant answered Saul againe, and said, Beholde, I haue founde about me the fourth part of a shekell of siluer: that will I giue the man of God, to tell vs our way.
1 Samuel 9:9	(Beforetime in Israel when a man went to seeke an answere of God, thus he spake, Come, and let vs goe to the Seer: for he that is called nowe a Prophet, was in the olde time called a Seer)
1 Samuel 9:10	Then saide Saul to his seruant, Well saide, come, let vs goe: so they went into the citie where the man of God was.
1 Samuel 9:11	And as they were going vp the hie way to the citie, they found maydes that came out to draw water, and said vnto them, Is there here a Seer?
1 Samuel 9:12	And they answered them, and said, Yea: loe, he is before you: make haste nowe, for he came this day to the citie: for there is an offering of the people this day in the hie place.
1 Samuel 9:13	When ye shall come into the citie, ye shall finde him straightway yet he come vp to the hie place to eate: for the people will not eate vntill he come, because he will blesse the sacrifice: and then eate they that be bidden to the feast: nowe therefore goe vp: for euen now shall ye find him.
1 Samuel 9:14	Then they went vp into the citie, and when they were come into the middes of the citie, Samuel came out against them, to goe vp to the hie place.
1 Samuel 9:15	But the Lord had reueiled to Samuel secretly (a day before Saul came) saying,
1 Samuel 9:16	To morow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Beniamin: him shalt thou anoint to be gouernour ouer my people Israel, that he may saue my people out of the hands of the Philistims: for I haue looked vpon my people, and their crie is come vnto me.
1 Samuel 9:17	When Samuel therefore sawe Saul, the Lord answered him, See, this is the man whom I spake to thee of, he shall rule my people.
1 Samuel 9:18	Then went Saul to Samuel in the middes of the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the Seers house is.
1 Samuel 9:19	And Samuel answered Saul, and saide, I am the Seer: goe vp before me vnto the hie place: for ye shall eate with me to day. and to morowe I will let thee goe, and will tell thee all that is in thine heart.
1 Samuel 9:20	And as for thine asses that were lost three dayes ago, care not for them: for they are founde. and on whom is set all the desire of Israel? is it not vpon thee and on all thy fathers house?
1 Samuel 9:21	But Saul answered, and said, Am not I the sonne of Iemini of the smallest tribe of Israel? and my familie is the least of all the families of the tribe of Beniamin. Wherefore then speakest thou so to me?
1 Samuel 9:22	And Samuel tooke Saul and his seruant, and brought them into the chamber, and made them sit in the chiefest place among them that were bidden: which were about thirtie persons.
1 Samuel 9:23	And Samuel saide vnto the cooke, Bring foorth the portion which I gaue thee, and whereof I said vnto thee, Keepe it with thee.
1 Samuel 9:24	And the cooke tooke vp the shoulder, and that which was vpon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Beholde, that which is left, set it before thee and eate: for hitherto hath it bene kept for thee, saying, Also I haue called the people. So Saul did eate with Samuel that day.
1 Samuel 9:25	And when they were come downe from the hie place into the citie, he communed with Saul vpon the top of the house.
1 Samuel 9:26	And when they arose early about ye spring of the day, Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, Vp, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out, both he, and Samuel.
1 Samuel 9:27	And when they were come downe to the ende of the citie, Samuel said to Saul, Bid the seruant goe before vs, (and he went) but stand thou still nowe, that I may shewe thee the worde of God.
1 Samuel 10:1	Then Samuel tooke a viole of oyle and powred it vpon his head, and kissed him, and saide, Hath not the Lord anointed thee to be gouernour ouer his inheritance?
1 Samuel 10:2	When thou shalt depart from me this day, thou shalt finde two men by Rahels sepulchre in the border of Beniamin, euen at Zelzah, and they will say vnto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seeke, are founde: and lo, thy father hath left the care of the asses, and soroweth for you, saying, What shall I doe for my sonne?
1 Samuel 10:3	Then shalt thou go forth from thence and shalt come to the plaine of Tabor, and there shall meete thee three men going vp to God to Bethel: one carying three kiddes, and an other carying three loaues of bread, and another carying a bottle of wine:
1 Samuel 10:4	And they will aske thee if all be well, and will giue thee the two loaues of bread, which thou shalt receiue of their handes.
1 Samuel 10:5	After that shalt thou come to the hill of God, where is the garisons of the Philistims: and when thou art come thither to the citie, thou shalt meete a companie of Prophets comming downe from the hie place with a viole, and a tymbrell, and a pipe, and an harpe before them, and they shall prophecie.
1 Samuel 10:6	Then the Spirit of the Lord will come vpon thee, and thou shalt prophecie with them, and shalt be turned into another man.
1 Samuel 10:7	Therefore when these signes shall come vnto to thee, doe as occasion shall serue: for God is with thee.
1 Samuel 10:8	And thou shalt goe downe before me to Gilgal: and I also will come downe vnto thee to offer burnt offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace. Tary for me seuen dayes, till I come to thee and shewe thee what thou shalt doe.
1 Samuel 10:9	And when he had turned his backe to goe from Samuel, God gaue him another heart: and all those tokens came to passe that same day.
1 Samuel 10:10	And when they came thither to the hill, beholde, the companie of Prophets meete him, and the Spirit of God came vpon him, and he prophecied among them.
1 Samuel 10:11	Therefore all the people that knewe him before, when they saw that he prophecied among the Prophets, saide eche to other, What is come vnto the sonne of Kish? is Saul also among the Prophets?
1 Samuel 10:12	And one of the same place answered, and said, But who is their father? Therefore it was a prouerbe, Is Saul also among the Prophets?
1 Samuel 10:13	And when he had made an ende of prophecying, he came to the hie place.
1 Samuel 10:14	And Sauls vncle saide vnto him, and to his seruant, Whither went ye? And he saide, To seeke the asses: and when we sawe that they were no where, we came to Samuel.
1 Samuel 10:15	And Sauls vncle saide, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said vnto you.
1 Samuel 10:16	Then Saul saide to his vncle, He tolde vs plainely that the asses were founde: but concerning the kingdome whereof Samuel spake, tolde he him not.
1 Samuel 10:17	And Samuel assembled the people vnto the Lord in Mizpeh,
1 Samuel 10:18	And he saide vnto the children of Israel, Thus saith ye Lord God of Israel, I haue brought Israel out of Egypt, and deliuered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the handes of all kingdomes that troubled you.
1 Samuel 10:19	But ye haue this day cast away your God, who onely deliuereth you out of all your aduersities and tribulations: and ye said vnto him, No, but appoint a King ouer vs. Nowe therefore stand ye before the Lord according to your tribes, and according to your thousands.
1 Samuel 10:20	And when Samuel had gathered together all the tribes of Israel, the tribe of Beniamin was taken.
1 Samuel 10:21	Afterwarde he assembled the tribe of Beniamin according to their families, and the familie of Matri was taken. So Saul the sonne of Kish was taken, and when they sought him, he coulde not be found.
1 Samuel 10:22	Therefore they asked the Lord againe, if that man should yet come thither. And the Lord answered, Beholde, he hath hid himselfe among the stuffe.
1 Samuel 10:23	And they ranne, and brought him thence: and when he stoode among the people, he was hier then any of the people from the shoulders vpwarde.
1 Samuel 10:24	And Samuel saide to all the people, See ye not him, whom the Lord hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? and all the people shouted and saide, God saue the King.
1 Samuel 10:25	Then Samuel tolde the people the duetie of the kingdome, and wrote it in a booke, and laied it vp before the Lord, and Samuel sent all the people away euery man to his house.
1 Samuel 10:26	Saul also went home to Gibeah, and there followed him a bande of men, whose heart God had touched,
1 Samuel 10:27	But the wicked men saide, Howe shall hee saue vs? So they despised him, and brought him no presents: but he held his tongue.
1 Samuel 11:1	Then Nahash the Ammonite came vp, and besieged Iabesh Gilead: and all the men of Iabesh saide vnto Nahash, Make a couenant with vs, and we will be thy seruants.
1 Samuel 11:2	And Nahash ye Ammonite answered them, On this condition will I make a couenant with you, that I may thrust out all your right eies, and bring that shame vpon all Israel.
1 Samuel 11:3	To whome the Elders of Iabesh said, Giue vs seuen daies respet, that we may sende messengers vnto all the coastes of Israel: and then if no man deliuer vs, we will come out to thee.
1 Samuel 11:4	Then came the messengers to Gibeah of Saul, and tolde these tidings in the eares of the people: and all the people lift vp their voices and wept.
1 Samuel 11:5	And behold, Saul came following the cattell out of the fielde, and Saul saide, What aileth this people, that they weepe? And they tolde him the tidings of the men of Iabesh.
1 Samuel 11:6	Then the Spirit of God came vpon Saul, when he heard those tidings, and he was exceeding angrie,
1 Samuel 11:7	And tooke a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the coastes of Israel by the hands of messengers, saying, Whosoeuer commeth not foorth after Saul, and after Samuel, so shall his oxen be serued. And the feare of the Lord fell on the people, and they came out with one consent.
1 Samuel 11:8	And when he nombred them in Bezek, the children of Israel were three hundreth thousande men: and the men of Iudah thirtie thousand.
1 Samuel 11:9	Then they saide vnto the messengers that came, So say vnto the men of Iabesh Gilead, To morowe by then the sunne be hote, ye shall haue helpe. And the messengers came and shewed it to the men of Iabesh, which were glad.
1 Samuel 11:10	Therefore the men of Iabesh sayde, To morowe we will come out vnto you, and yee shall doe with vs all that pleaseth you.
1 Samuel 11:11	And when the morowe was come, Saul put the people in three bandes, and they came in vpon the hoste in the morning watche, and slewe the Ammonites vntill the heate of the day: and they that remained, were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.
1 Samuel 11:12	Then the people said vnto Samuel, Who is he that saide, Shall Saul reigne ouer vs? bring those men that we may slaie them.
1 Samuel 11:13	But Saul said, There shall no man die this day: for to day the Lord hath saued Israel.
1 Samuel 11:14	Then saide Samuel vnto ye people, Come, that we may goe to Gilgal, and renue the kingdome there.
1 Samuel 11:15	So all the people went to Gilgal, and made Saul King there before the Lord in Gilgal: and there they offered peace offerings before the Lord: and there Saul and all the men of Israel reioyced exceedingly.
1 Samuel 12:1	Samuel then said vnto all Israel, Behold, I haue hearkened vnto your voyce in all that yee sayde vnto mee, and haue appoynted a King ouer you.
1 Samuel 12:2	Now therefore behold, your King walketh before you, and I am old and graie headed, and beholde, my sonnes are with you: and I haue walked before you from my childehood vnto this day.
1 Samuel 12:3	Beholde, here I am: beare recorde of me before the Lord and before his Anointed. Whose oxe haue I taken? or whose asse haue I taken? or whome haue I done wrong to? or whome haue I hurt? or of whose hande haue I receiued any bribe, to blinde mine eyes therewith, and I will restore it you?
1 Samuel 12:4	Then they sayde, Thou hast done vs no wrong, nor hast hurt vs, neither hast thou taken ought of any mans hand.
1 Samuel 12:5	And he saide vnto them, The Lord is witnesse against you, and his Anointed is witnesse this day, that yee haue founde nought in mine handes. And they answered, He is witnesse.
1 Samuel 12:6	Then Samuel sayde vnto the people, It is the Lord that made Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers out of the land of Egypt.
1 Samuel 12:7	Nowe therefore stand still, that I may reason with you before the Lord according to all the righteousnesse of the Lord, which he shewed to you and to your fathers.
1 Samuel 12:8	After that Iaakob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried vnto the Lord, then the Lord sent Moses and Aaron which brought your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.
1 Samuel 12:9	And when they forgate the Lord their God, he solde them into the hand of Sisera captaine of the hoste of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistims, and into the hande of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.
1 Samuel 12:10	And they cried vnto the Lord, and saide, We haue sinned, because we haue forsaken the Lord, and haue serued Baalim and Ashtaroth. Nowe therefore deliuer vs out of the handes of our enemies, and we will serue thee.
1 Samuel 12:11	Therefore the Lord sent Ierubbaal and Bedan and Iphtaph, and Samuel, and deliuered you out of the handes of your enemies on euery side, and yee dwelled safe.
1 Samuel 12:12	Notwithstanding when you sawe, that Nahash the King of the children of Ammon came against you, ye sayde vnto me, No, but a King shall reigne ouer vs: when yet the Lord your God was your King.
1 Samuel 12:13	Nowe therefore beholde the King whome yee haue chosen, and whome yee haue desired: loe therefore, the Lord hath set a King ouer you.
1 Samuel 12:14	If ye wil feare the Lord and serue him, and heare his voyce, and not disobey the worde of the Lord, both yee, and the King that reigneth ouer you, shall follow the Lord your God.
1 Samuel 12:15	But if yee will not obey the voyce of the Lord, but disobey the Lordes mouth, then shall the hand of the Lord be vpon you, and on your fathers.
1 Samuel 12:16	Nowe also stande and see this great thing which the Lord will doe before your eyes.
1 Samuel 12:17	Is it not nowe wheat haruest? I wil call vnto the Lord, and he shall send thunder and raine, that yee may perceiue and see, howe that your wickednesse is great, which ye haue done in the sight of the Lord in asking you a King.
1 Samuel 12:18	Then Samuel called vnto the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and raine the same day: and all the people feared the Lord and Samuel exceedingly.
1 Samuel 12:19	And all the people said vnto Samuel, Pray for thy seruaunts vnto the Lord thy God, that we die not: for we haue sinned in asking vs a King, beside all our other sinnes.
1 Samuel 12:20	And Samuel said vnto the people, Feare not. (ye haue indeede done all this wickednesse, yet depart not from following the Lord, but serue the Lord with all your heart,
1 Samuel 12:21	Neither turne yee backe: for that shoulde be after vaine things which cannot profite you, nor deliuer you, for they are but vanitie)
1 Samuel 12:22	For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great Names sake: because it hath pleased the Lord to make you his people.
1 Samuel 12:23	Moreouer God forbid, that I should sinne against the Lord, and cease praying for you, but I will shewe you the good and right way.
1 Samuel 12:24	Therefore feare you the Lord, and serue him in the trueth with all your hearts, and consider howe great things he hath done for you.
1 Samuel 12:25	But if ye doe wickedly, ye shall perish, both yee, and your King.
1 Samuel 13:1	Saul nowe had beene King one yeere, and he reigned two yeeres ouer Israel.
1 Samuel 13:2	Then Saul chose him three thousand of Israel: and two thousande were with Saul in Michmash, and in mount Beth-el, and a thousande were with Ionathan in Gibeah of Beniamin: and the rest of the people he sent euery one to his tent.
1 Samuel 13:3	And Ionathan smote the garison of the Philistims, that was in the hill: and it came to the Philistims eares: and Saul blewe the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Heare, O yee Ebrewes.
1 Samuel 13:4	And al Israel heard say, Saul hath destroied a garison of the Philistims: wherefore Israel was had in abomination with the Philistims: and the people gathered together after Saul to Gilgal.
1 Samuel 13:5	The Philistims also gathered themselues together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand charets, and sixe thousande horsemen: for the people was like the sand which is by the seas side in multitude, and came vp, and pitched in Michmash Eastward from Beth-auen.
1 Samuel 13:6	And when the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait (for the people were in distresse) the people hid themselues in caues, and in holdes, and in rockes, and in towres, and in pittes.
1 Samuel 13:7	And some of the Ebrewes went ouer Iorden vnto the lande of Gad and Gilead: and Saul was yet in Gilgal, and al the people for feare followed him.
1 Samuel 13:8	And he taried seuen daies, according vnto the time that Samuel had appointed: but Samuel came not to Gilgal, therefore the people were scattered from him.
1 Samuel 13:9	And Saul sayde, Bring a burnt offering to me and peace offrings: and he offered a burnt offering.
1 Samuel 13:10	And assoone as hee had made an ende of offering the burnt offering, beholde, Samuel came: and Saul went foorth to meete him, to salute him.
1 Samuel 13:11	And Samuel saide, What hast thou done? Then Saul saide, Because I sawe that the people was scattred from me, and that thou camest not within the daies appoynted, and that the Philistims gathered themselues together to Michmash,
1 Samuel 13:12	Therefore said I, The Philistims will come downe nowe vpon me to Gilgal, and I haue not made supplication vnto the Lord. I was bolde therefore and offred a burnt offring.
1 Samuel 13:13	And Samuel saide to Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandement of the Lord thy God, which he commanded thee: for the Lord had nowe stablished thy kingdome vpon Israel for euer.
1 Samuel 13:14	But nowe thy kingdom shall not continue: the Lord hath sought him a man after his owne heart, and the Lord hath commanded him to be gouernour ouer his people, because thou hast not kept that which the Lord had commanded thee.
1 Samuel 13:15	And Samuel arose, and gate him vp from Gilgal in Gibeah of Beniamin: and Saul nombred the people that were found with him, about sixe hundreth men.
1 Samuel 13:16	And Saul and Ionathan his sonne, and the people that were found with them, had their abiding in Gibeah of Beniamin: but the Philistims pitched in Michmash.
1 Samuel 13:17	And there came out of the hoste of the Philistims three bandes to destroie, one bande turned vnto the way of Ophrah vnto the lande of Shual,
1 Samuel 13:18	And another bad turned toward the way to Beth-horon, and the third band turned toward the way of the coast that looketh toward the valley of Zeboim, towarde the wildernesse.
1 Samuel 13:19	Then there was no smith founde throughout all the land of Israel: for the Philistims sayde, Lest the Ebrewes make them swordes or speares.
1 Samuel 13:20	Wherefore all ye Israelites went downe to the Philistims, to sharpen euery man his share, his mattocke, and his axe, and his weeding hooke.
1 Samuel 13:21	Yet they had a file for the shares, and for the mattockes, and for the picke forkes, and for the axes, and for to sharpen the goades.
1 Samuel 13:22	So whe the day of battell was come, there was neither sworde nor speare founde in the handes of any of the people that were with Saul and with Ionathan: but onely with Saul and Ionathan his sonne was there founde.
1 Samuel 13:23	And the garison of the Philistims came out to the passage of Michmash.
1 Samuel 14:1	Then on a day Ionathan the sonne of Saul sayde vnto the yong man that bare his armour, Come and let vs goe ouer towarde the Philistims garison, that is yonder on the other side, but he tolde not his father.
1 Samuel 14:2	And Saul taried in the border of Gibeah vnder a pomegranate tree, which was in Migron, and the people that were with him, were about sixe hundreth men.
1 Samuel 14:3	And Ahiah the sonne of Ahitub, Ichabods brother, the sonne of Phinehas, the sonne of Eli, was the Lordes Priest in Shiloh, and ware an Ephod: and the people knewe not that Ionathan was gone.
1 Samuel 14:4	Nowe in the way whereby Ionathan sought to go ouer to the Philistims garison, there was a sharpe rocke on the one side, and a sharpe rocke on the other side: the name of the one was called Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
1 Samuel 14:5	The one rocke stretched from the North towarde Michmash, and the other was from the South toward Gibeah.
1 Samuel 14:6	And Ionathan saide to the yong man that bare his armour, Come, and let vs goe ouer vnto the garison of these vncircumcised: it may be that the Lord will worke with vs: for it is not hard to the Lord to saue with many, or with fewe.
1 Samuel 14:7	And he that bare his armour, saide vnto him, Doe all that is in thine heart: goe where it pleaseth thee: beholde, I am with thee as thine heart desireth.
1 Samuel 14:8	Then said Ionathan, Beholde, we goe ouer vnto those men, and will shewe our selues vnto them.
1 Samuel 14:9	If they say on this wise to vs, Tarie vntill we come to you, then we will stand still in our place, and not goe vp to them.
1 Samuel 14:10	But if they say, Come vp vnto vs, then we will goe vp: for the Lord hath deliuered them into our hande: and this shall be a signe vnto vs.
1 Samuel 14:11	So they both shewed themselues vnto the garison of the Philistims: and the Philistims said, See, the Ebrewes come out of the holes wherein they had hid themselues.
1 Samuel 14:12	And the men of the garison answered Ionathan, and his armour bearer, and said, Come vp to vs: for we will shewe you a thing. Then Ionathan said vnto his armour bearer, Come vp after me: for the Lord hath deliuered them into the hand of Israel.
1 Samuel 14:13	So Ionathan went vp vpon his hands and vpon his feete, and his armour bearer after him: and some fell before Ionathan, and his armour bearer slewe others after him.
1 Samuel 14:14	So the first slaughter which Ionathan and his armour bearer made, was about twentie men, as it were within halfe an acre of land which two oxen plowe.
1 Samuel 14:15	And there was a feare in the hoste, and in the field, and among all the people: the garison also, and they that went out to spoyle, were afraid themselues: and the earth trembled: for it was striken with feare by God.
1 Samuel 14:16	Then the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Beniamin sawe: and beholde, the multitude was discomfited, and smitten as they went.
1 Samuel 14:17	Therefore saide Saul vnto the people that were with him, Search nowe and see, who is gone from vs. And when they had nombred, beholde, Ionathan and his armour bearer were not there.
1 Samuel 14:18	And Saul said vnto Ahiah, Bring hither the Arke of God (for the Arke of God was at that time with the children of Israel)
1 Samuel 14:19	And while Saul talked vnto the Priest, the noyse that was in the hoste of the Philistims, spred farther abroade, and encreased: therefore Saul said vnto the Priest, Withdraw thine hand.
1 Samuel 14:20	And Saul was assembled with all the people that were with him, and they came to the battell: and behold, euery mans sworde was against his fellow, and there was a very great discomfiture.
1 Samuel 14:21	Moreouer, the Ebrewes that were with the Philistims beforetime, and were come with them into all partes of the hoste, euen they also turned to be with the Israelites that were with Saul and Ionathan.
1 Samuel 14:22	Also all the men of Israel which had hid themselues in mount Ephraim, when they heard, that the Philistims were fled, they followed after them in the battell.
1 Samuel 14:23	And so the Lord saued Israel that day: and the battell continued vnto Beth-auen.
1 Samuel 14:24	And at that time the men of Israel were pressed with hunger: for Saul charged the people with an othe, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth foode till night, that I may be auenged of mine enemies: so none of the people tasted any sustenance.
1 Samuel 14:25	And all they of the land came to a wood, where hony lay vpon the ground.
1 Samuel 14:26	And the people came into the wood, and beholde, the hony dropped, and no man mooued his hand to his mouth: for the people feared the othe.
1 Samuel 14:27	But Ionathan heard not when his father charged the people with the othe: wherefore he put foorth the ende of the rod that was in his hand, and dipt it in an hony combe, and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes receiued sight.
1 Samuel 14:28	Then answered one of the people, and said, Thy father made the people to sweare, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth sustenance this day: and the people were faint.
1 Samuel 14:29	Then said Ionathan, My father hath troubled the land: see nowe howe mine eyes are made cleare, because I haue tasted a litle of this honie:
1 Samuel 14:30	Howe much more, if the people had eaten to day of the spoyle of their enemies which they found? for had there not bene nowe a greater slaughter among the Philistims?
1 Samuel 14:31	And they smote the Philistims that day, from Michmash to Aiialon: and the people were exceeding faint.
1 Samuel 14:32	So the people turned to the spoile, and tooke sheepe, and oxen, and calues, and slewe them on the ground, and the people did eate them with the blood.
1 Samuel 14:33	Then men tolde Saul, saying, Beholde, the people sinne against the Lord, in that they eate with the blood. And he saide, Ye haue trespassed: roule a great stone vnto me this day.
1 Samuel 14:34	Againe Saul said, Goe abroade among the people, and bid them bring me euery man his oxe, and euery man his sheepe, and slay them here, and eate and sinne not against the Lord in eating with the blood. And ye people brought euery man his oxe in his hand that night, and slew them there.
1 Samuel 14:35	Then Saul made an altar vnto the Lord, and that was the first altar that he made vnto the Lord.
1 Samuel 14:36	And Saul saide, Let vs goe downe after the Philistims by night, and spoyle them vntill the morning shine, and let vs not leaue a man of them. And they saide, Doe whatsoeuer thou thinkest best. Then saide the Priest, Let vs drawe neere hither vnto God.
1 Samuel 14:37	So Saul asked of God, saying, Shall I goe downe after ye Philistims? wilt thou deliuer them into the hands of Israel? But he answered him not at that time.
1 Samuel 14:38	And Saul said, All ye chiefe of the people, come ye hither, and knowe, and see by whom this sinne is done this day.
1 Samuel 14:39	For as the Lord liueth, which saueth Israel, though it be done by Ionathan my sonne, he shall dye the death. But none of all the people answered him.
1 Samuel 14:40	Then he saide vnto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Ionathan my sonne will be on the other side. And the people saide vnto Saul, Doe what thou thinkest best.
1 Samuel 14:41	Then Saul said vnto the Lord God of Israel, Giue a perfite lot. And Ionathan and Saul were taken, but the people escaped.
1 Samuel 14:42	And Saul saide, Cast lot betweene me and Ionathan my sonne. And Ionathan was taken.
1 Samuel 14:43	Then Saul said to Ionathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Ionathan tolde him, and said, I tasted a litle hony with the ende of the rod, that was in mine hand, and loe, I must die.
1 Samuel 14:44	Againe Saul answered, God doe so and more also, vnlesse thou die the death, Ionathan.
1 Samuel 14:45	And the people said vnto Saul, Shall Ionathan die, who hath so mightily deliuered Israel? God forbid. As the Lord liueth, there shall not one heare of his head fall to the ground: for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people deliuered Ionathan that he dyed not.
1 Samuel 14:46	Then Saul came vp from the Philistims: and the Philistims went to their owne place.
1 Samuel 14:47	So Saul helde the kingdome ouer Israel, and fought against all his enemies on euery side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the Kings of Zobah, and against the Philistims: and whithersoeuer he went, he handled them as wicked men.
1 Samuel 14:48	He gathered also an hoste and smote Amalek, and deliuered Israel out of the handes of them that spoyled them.
1 Samuel 14:49	Nowe the sonnes of Saul were Ionathan, and Ishui, and Malchishua: and the names of his two daughters, the elder was called Merab, and the yonger was named Michal.
1 Samuel 14:50	And the name of Sauls wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of his chiefe captaine was Abner the sonne of Ner, Sauls vncle.
1 Samuel 14:51	And Kish was Sauls father: and Ner the father of Abner was the sonne of Abiel.
1 Samuel 14:52	And there was sore warre against the Philistims all the dayes of Saul: and whomsoeuer Saul sawe to be a strong man, and meete for the warre, he tooke him vnto him.
1 Samuel 15:1	Afterward Samuel said vnto Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint thee King ouer his people, ouer Israel: nowe therefore obey the voyce of the wordes of the Lord.
1 Samuel 15:2	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, I remember what Amalek did to Israel, howe they laide waite for the in ye way, as they came vp from Egypt.
1 Samuel 15:3	Nowe therefore goe, and sinite Amalek, and destroy ye all that perteyneth vnto them, and haue no compassion on them, but slay both man and woman, both infant and suckling, both oxe, and sheepe, both camell, and asse.
1 Samuel 15:4	And Saul assembled ye people, and nombred them in Telaim, two hundreth thousande footemen, and ten thousand men of Iudah.
1 Samuel 15:5	And Saul came to a citie of Amalek, and set watch at the riuer.
1 Samuel 15:6	And Saul said vnto the Kenites, Goe, depart, and get you downe from among the Amalekites, least I destroy you with them: for ye shewed mercie to all the children of Israel, when they came vp from Egypt: and the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
1 Samuel 15:7	So Saul smote the Amalekites from Hauilah as thou commest to Shur, that is before Egypt,
1 Samuel 15:8	And tooke Agag the King of the Amalekites aliue, and destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
1 Samuel 15:9	But Saul and the people spared Agag, and the better sheepe, and the oxen, and the fat beasts, and the lambes, and all that was good, and they would not destroy them: but euery thing that was vile and nought worth, that they destroyed.
1 Samuel 15:10	Then came the worde of the Lord vnto Samuel, saying,
1 Samuel 15:11	It repenteth me that I haue made Saul King: for he is turned from me, and hath not performed my commandements. And Samuel was mooued, and cryed vnto the Lord all night.
1 Samuel 15:12	And when Samuel arose early to meete Saul in the morning, one tolde Samuel, saying, Saul is gone to Carmel: and beholde, he hath made him there a place, from whence he returned, and departed, and is gone downe to Gilgal.
1 Samuel 15:13	Then Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said vnto him. Blessed be thou of the Lord, I haue fulfilled the commandement of the Lord.
1 Samuel 15:14	But Samuel saide, What meaneth then the bleating of the sheepe in mine eares, and the lowing of the oxen which I heare?
1 Samuel 15:15	And Saul answered, They haue brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheepe, and of the oxen to sacrifice them vnto the Lord thy God, and the remnant haue we destroyed.
1 Samuel 15:16	Againe Samuel saide to Saul, Let me tell thee what the Lord hath saide to me this night. And he said vnto him, Say on.
1 Samuel 15:17	Then Samuel saide, When thou wast litle in thine owne sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? for the Lord anointed thee King ouer Israel.
1 Samuel 15:18	And the Lord sent thee on a iourney, and saide, Goe, and destroy those sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them, vntill thou destroy them.
1 Samuel 15:19	Nowe wherefore hast thou not obeyed the voyce of the Lord, but hast turned to the pray, and hast done wickedly in the sight of the Lord?
1 Samuel 15:20	And Saul saide vnto Samuel, Yea, I haue obeyed the voyce of the Lord, and haue gone the way which the Lord sent me, and haue brought Agag the King of Amalek, and haue destroyed the Amalekites.
1 Samuel 15:21	But the people tooke of the spoyle, sheepe, and oxen, and the chiefest of the things which shoulde haue bene destroyed, to offer vnto the Lord thy God in Gilgal.
1 Samuel 15:22	And Samuel saide, Hath the Lord as great pleasure in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as when the voyce of the Lord is obeyed? beholde, to obey is better then sacrifice, and to hearken is better then the fatte of rammes.
1 Samuel 15:23	For rebellion is as the sinne of withcraft, and transgression is wickednesse and idolatrie. Because thou hast cast away the worde of the Lord, therefore hee hath cast away thee from being King.
1 Samuel 15:24	Then Saul sayde vnto Samuel, I haue sinned: for I haue transgressed the commandement of the Lord, and thy wordes, because I feared the people, and obeyed their voyce.
1 Samuel 15:25	Nowe therefore I pray thee, take away my sinne, and turne againe with mee, that I may worship the Lord.
1 Samuel 15:26	But Samuel saide vnto Saul, I will not returne with thee: for thou hast cast away the word of the Lord, and the Lord hath cast away thee, that thou shalt not be King ouer Israel.
1 Samuel 15:27	And as Samuel turned himselfe to goe away, he caught the lappe of his coate, and it rent.
1 Samuel 15:28	Then Samuel saide vnto him, The Lord hath rent the kingdome of Israel from thee this day, and hath giuen it to thy neighbour, that is better then thou.
1 Samuel 15:29	For in deede the strength of Israel will not lye nor repent: for hee is not a man that hee should repent.
1 Samuel 15:30	Then he saide, I haue sinned: but honour mee, I pray thee, before the Elders of my people, and before Israel, and turne againe with mee, that I may worship the Lord thy God.
1 Samuel 15:31	So Samuel turned againe, and followed Saul: and Saul worshipped the Lord.
1 Samuel 15:32	Then saide Samuel, Bring yee hither to me Agag ye King of the Amalekites: and Agag came vnto him pleasantly, and Agag saide, Truely the bitternesse of death is passed.
1 Samuel 15:33	And Samuel sayde, As thy sworde hath made women childlesse, so shall thy mother bee childelesse among other women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before the Lord in Gilgal.
1 Samuel 15:34	So Samuel departed to Ramah, and Saul went vp to his house to Gibeah of Saul.
1 Samuel 15:35	And Samuel came no more to see Saul vntill the day of his death: but Samuel mourned for Saul, and the Lord repented that hee made Saul King ouer Israel.
1 Samuel 16:1	The Lord then saide vnto Samuel, Howe long wilt thou mourne for Saul, seeing I haue cast him away from reigning ouer Israel? fill thine horne with oyle and come, I will sende thee to Ishai the Bethlehemite: for I haue prouided mee a King among his sonnes.
1 Samuel 16:2	And Samuel sayde, Howe can I goe? for if Saul shall heare it, he will kill me. Then the Lord answered, Take an heifer with thee, and say, I am come to doe sacrifice to the Lord.
1 Samuel 16:3	And call Ishai to the sacrifice, and I will shewe thee what thou shalt doe, and thou shalt anoynt vnto me him whom I name vnto thee.
1 Samuel 16:4	So Samuel did that the Lord bade him, and came to Beth-lehem, and the Elders of the towne were astonied at his comming, and sayd, Commest thou peaceablie?
1 Samuel 16:5	And he answeared, Yea: I am come to doe sacrifice vnto the Lord: sanctifie your selues, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Ishai and his sonnes, and called them to the sacrifice.
1 Samuel 16:6	And when they were come, hee looked on Eliab, and saide, Surely the Lordes Anointed is before him.
1 Samuel 16:7	But the Lord said vnto Samuel, Looke not on his countenance, nor on the height of his stature, because I haue refused him: for God seeth not as man seeth: for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord beholdeth the heart.
1 Samuel 16:8	Then Ishai called Abinadab, and made him come before Samuel. And he saide, Neither hath the Lord chosen this.
1 Samuel 16:9	Then Ishai made Shammah come. And he said, Neither yet hath the Lord chosen him.
1 Samuel 16:10	Againe Ishai made his seue sonnes to come before Samuel: and Samuel saide vnto Ishai, The Lord hath chosen none of these.
1 Samuel 16:11	Finally, Samuel said vnto Ishai, Are there no more children but these? And hee sayde, There remaineth yet a litle one behinde, that keepeth the sheepe. Then Samuel saide vnto Ishai, Sende and set him: for we will not sit downe, till he be come hither.
1 Samuel 16:12	And he sent, and brought him in: and he was ruddie, and of a good countenance, and comely visage. And the Lord saide, Arise, and anoynt him: for this is he.
1 Samuel 16:13	Then Samuel tooke the horne of oyle, and anoynted him in the middes of his brethren. And the Spirit of the Lord came vpon Dauid, from that day forwarde: then Samuel rose vp, and went to Ramah.
1 Samuel 16:14	But the Spirite of the Lord departed from Saul, and an euill spirite sent of the Lord vexed him.
1 Samuel 16:15	And Sauls seruants said vnto him, Beholde nowe, the euill spirite of God vexeth thee.
1 Samuel 16:16	Let our Lord therefore command thy seruants, that are before thee, to seeke a man that is a cunning plaier vpon the harpe: that when the euil spirit of God commeth vpon thee, hee may play with his hand, and thou maiest be eased.
1 Samuel 16:17	Saul then saide vnto his seruantes, Prouide me a man, I pray you, that can play well, and bring him to me.
1 Samuel 16:18	Then answered one of his seruauntes, and sayde, Beholde, I haue seene a sonne of Ishai, a Bethlehemite, that can plaie, and is strong, valiant and a man of warre and wise in matters, and a comely person, and the Lord is with him.
1 Samuel 16:19	Wherefore Saul sent messengers vnto Ishai, and said, Send me Dauid thy sonne which is with the sheepe.
1 Samuel 16:20	And Ishai tooke an asse laden with breade and a flagon of wine and a kidde, and sent them by the hand of Dauid his sonne vnto Saul.
1 Samuel 16:21	And Dauid came to Saul, and stoode before him: and he loued him verie well, and he was his armour bearer.
1 Samuel 16:22	And Saul sent to Ishai, saying, Let Dauid nowe remaine with me: for he hath found fauour in my sight.
1 Samuel 16:23	And so when the euil spirite of God came vpon Saul, Dauid tooke an harpe and plaied with his hande, and Saul was refreshed, and was eased: for the euill spirit departed from him.
1 Samuel 17:1	Nowe the Philistims gathered their armies to battell, and came together to Shochoh, which is in Iudah, and pitched betweene Shochoh and Azekah, in the coast of Dammim.
1 Samuel 17:2	And Saul, and the men of Israel assembled, and pitched in the valley of Elah, and put themselues in battell araie to meete the Philistims.
1 Samuel 17:3	And the Philistims stoode on a mountaine on the one side, and Israel stoode on a mountaine on the other side: so a valley was betweene them.
1 Samuel 17:4	Then came a man betweene them both out of the tents of the Philistims, named Goliath of Gath: his height was sixe cubites and an hande breadth,
1 Samuel 17:5	Aud had an helmet of brasse vpon his head, and a brigandine vpon him: and the weight of his brigandine was fiue thousand shekels of brasse.
1 Samuel 17:6	And he had bootes of brasse vpon his legs, and a shield of brasse vpon his shoulders.
1 Samuel 17:7	And the shaft of his speare was like a weauers beame: and his speare head weyed sixe hundreth shekels of yron: and one bearing a shielde went before him.
1 Samuel 17:8	And he stoode, and cried against the hoste of Israel, and saide vnto them, Why are yee come to set your battell in aray? am not I a Philistim, and you seruaunts to Saul? chuse you a man for you, and let him come downe to me.
1 Samuel 17:9	If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, then wil we be your seruants: but if I ouercome him, and kill him, then shall yee be our seruants, and serue vs.
1 Samuel 17:10	Also the Philistim saide, I defie the hoste of Israel this day: giue mee a man, that we may fight together.
1 Samuel 17:11	When Saul and all Israel heard those wordes of the Philistim, they were discouraged, and greatly afraide.
1 Samuel 17:12	Nowe this Dauid was the sonne of an Ephrathite of Beth-lehem Iudah, named Ishai, which had eight sonnes: and this man was taken for an olde man in the daies of Saul.
1 Samuel 17:13	And the three eldest sonnes of Ishai went and followed Saul to the battel: and the names of his three sonnes that went to battell, were Eliab the Eldest, and the next Abinadab, and the thirde Shammah.
1 Samuel 17:14	So Dauid was the least: and the three eldest went after Saul.
1 Samuel 17:15	Dauid also went, but hee returned from Saul to feede his fathers sheepe in Beth-lehem.
1 Samuel 17:16	And the Philistim drew neere in the morning, and euening, and continued fourtie daies.
1 Samuel 17:17	And Ishai said vnto Dauid his sone, Take nowe for thy brethren an Ephah of this parched corne, and these ten cakes, and runne to the hoste to thy brethren.
1 Samuel 17:18	Also carie these ten fresh cheeses vnto the captaine, and looke howe thy brethren fare, and receiue their pledge.
1 Samuel 17:19	(Then Saul and they, and all the men of Israel were in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistims)
1 Samuel 17:20	So Dauid rose vp earely in the morning, and left the sheepe with a keeper, and tooke and went as Ishai had commanded him, and came within the compasse of the hoste: and the hoste went out in araie, and shouted in the battell.
1 Samuel 17:21	For Israel and the Philistims had put themselues in araie, armie against armie.
1 Samuel 17:22	And Dauid left the things, which hee bare, vnder the handes of the keeper of the cariage, and ranne into the hoste, and came, and asked his brethren howe they did.
1 Samuel 17:23	And as hee talked with them, beholde, the man that was betweene the two armies, came vp, (whose name was Goliath ye Philistim of Gath) out of the armie of the Philistims, and spake such woordes, and Dauid heard them.
1 Samuel 17:24	And all the men of Israel, when they sawe the man, ranne away from him, and were sore afraied.
1 Samuel 17:25	For euery man of Israel saide, Sawe yee not this man that commeth vp? euen to reuile Israel is he come vp: and to him that killeth him, wil the king giue great riches, and will giue him his daughter, yea, and make his fathers house free in Israel.
1 Samuel 17:26	Then Dauid spake to the men that stoode with him, and sayde, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistim, and taketh away the shame from Israel? for who is this vncircumcised Philistim, that he shoulde reuile the hoste of the liuing God?
1 Samuel 17:27	And the people answered him after this maner, saying, Thus shall it be done to the man that killeth him.
1 Samuel 17:28	And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake vnto the men, and Eliab was verie angrie with Dauid, and sayde, Why camest thou downe hither? and with whome hast thou left those fewe sheepe in the wildernesse? I knowe thy pride and the malice of thine heart, that thou art come downe to see the battell.
1 Samuel 17:29	Then Dauid sayde, What haue I nowe done? Is there not a cause?
1 Samuel 17:30	And hee departed from him into the presence of another, and spake of the same maner, and the people answered him according to the former woordes.
1 Samuel 17:31	And they that heard the wordes which Dauid spake, rehearsed them before Saul, which caused him to be brought.
1 Samuel 17:32	So Dauid saide to Saul, Let no mans heart faile him, because of him: thy seruant wil goe, and fight with this Philistim.
1 Samuel 17:33	And Saul sayde to Dauid, Thou art not able to goe against this Philistim to fight with him: for thou art a boye, and he is a man of warre from his youth.
1 Samuel 17:34	And Dauid answered vnto Saul, Thy seruant kept his fathers sheepe, and there came a lyon, and likewise a beare, and tooke a sheepe out of the flocke,
1 Samuel 17:35	And I went out after him and smote him, and tooke it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by the beard, and smote him, and slue him.
1 Samuel 17:36	So thy seruaunt slue both the lyon, and the beare: therefore this vncircumcised Philistim shall be as one of them, seeing hee hath railed on the hoste of the liuing God.
1 Samuel 17:37	Moreouer Dauid sayd, The Lord that deliuered me out of the pawe of the lyon, and out of the paw of the beare, he wil deliuer me out of the hand of this Philistim. Then Saul sayd vnto Dauid, Go, and the Lord be with thee.
1 Samuel 17:38	And Saul put his rayment vpon Dauid, and put an helmet of brasse vpon his head, and put a brigandine vpon him.
1 Samuel 17:39	Then girded Dauid his sword vpon his rayment, and began to go: for he neuer proued it: and Dauid sayde vnto Saul, I can not goe with these: for I am not accustomed. wherefore Dauid put them off him.
1 Samuel 17:40	Then tooke he his staffe in his hand, and chose him fiue smoothe stones out of a brooke, and put them in his shepheards bagge or skrippe, and his sling was in his hand, and he drewe neere to the Philistim.
1 Samuel 17:41	And the Philistim came and drew neere vnto Dauid, and the man that bare the shielde went before him.
1 Samuel 17:42	Now when the Philistim looked about and saw Dauid, he disdeined him: for he was but yong, ruddie, and of a comely face.
1 Samuel 17:43	And the Philistim sayde vnto Dauid, Am I a dog, that thou commest to me with staues? And the Philistim cursed Dauid by his gods.
1 Samuel 17:44	And the Philistim sayd to Dauid, Come to me, and I will giue thy flesh vnto the foules of the heauen, and to the beastes of the field.
1 Samuel 17:45	Then sayd Dauid to the Philistim, Thou commest to me with a sword, and with a speare, and with a shield, but I come to thee in the Name of the Lord of hostes, the God of the hoste of Israel, whom thou hast rayled vpon.
1 Samuel 17:46	This day shall the Lord close thee in mine hand, and I shall smite thee, and take thine head from thee, and I wil giue the carkeises of the hoste of the Philistims this daye vnto the foules of the heauen, and to the beasts of the earth, that all the world may know that Israel hath a God,
1 Samuel 17:47	And that all this assembly may know, that the Lord saueth not with sworde nor with speare (for the battel is the Lords) and he will giue you into our handes.
1 Samuel 17:48	And when the Philistim arose to come and drawe neere vnto Dauid, Dauid hasted and ran to fight against the Philistim.
1 Samuel 17:49	And Dauid put his hande in his bagge, and tooke out a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistim in his forehead, that the stone sticked in his forehead, and he fell groueling to the earth.
1 Samuel 17:50	So Dauid ouercame the Philistim with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistim, and slew him, when Dauid had no sword in his hand.
1 Samuel 17:51	Then Dauid ranne, and stood vpon the Philistim, and tooke his sword and drew it out of his sheath, and slewe him, and cut off his head therewith. So whe the Philistims saw, that their champion was dead, they fled.
1 Samuel 17:52	And the men of Israel and Iudah arose, and shouted, and followed after the Philistims, vntill they came to the valley, and vnto the gates of Ekron: and the Philistims fell downe wounded by the way of Shaaraim, euen to Gath and to Ekron.
1 Samuel 17:53	And the children of Israel returned from pursuing the Philistims, and spoyled their tents.
1 Samuel 17:54	And Dauid tooke the head of ye Philistim, and brought it to Ierusalem, and put his armour in his tent.
1 Samuel 17:55	When Saul sawe Dauid go forth against the Philistim, he sayd vnto Abner the captaine of his hoste, Abner, whose sonne is this yong man? and Abner answered, As thy soule liueth, O King, I can not tell.
1 Samuel 17:56	Then the King sayde, Enquire thou whose sonne this yong man is.
1 Samuel 17:57	And when Dauid was returned from the slaughter of the Philistim, then Abner tooke him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistim in his hand.
1 Samuel 17:58	And Saul sayde to him, Whose sonne art thou, thou yong man? And Dauid answered, I am the sonne of thy seruant Ishai the Bethlehemite.
1 Samuel 18:1	And when he had made an ende of speaking vnto Saul, the soule of Ionathan was knit with the soule of Dauid, and Ionathan loued him, as his owne soule.
1 Samuel 18:2	And Saul tooke him that day, and woulde not let him returne to his fathers house.
1 Samuel 18:3	Then Ionathan and Dauid made a couenant: for he loued him as his owne soule.
1 Samuel 18:4	And Ionathan put off the robe that was vpon him, and gaue it Dauid, and his garments, euen to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.
1 Samuel 18:5	And Dauid went out whithersoeuer Saul sent him, and behaued himselfe wisely: so that Saul set him ouer the men of warre, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Sauls seruants.
1 Samuel 18:6	When they came againe, and Dauid returned from the slaughter of the Philistim, the women came out of all cities of Israel singing and dauncing to meete king Saul, with timbrels, with instruments of ioy, and with rebeckes.
1 Samuel 18:7	And the women sang by course in their play, and sayd, Saul hath slayne his thousand, and Dauid his ten thousand.
1 Samuel 18:8	Therefore Saul was exceeding wroth, and the saying displeased him, and he sayde, They haue ascribed vnto Dauid ten thousand, and to me they haue ascribed but a thousand, and what can he haue more saue the kingdome?
1 Samuel 18:9	Wherefore Saul had an eye on Dauid from that day forward.
1 Samuel 18:10	And on the morowe, the euill spirite of God came vpon Saul, and he prophecied in the middes of the house: and Dauid played with his hand like as at other times, and there was a speare in Sauls hand.
1 Samuel 18:11	And Saul tooke the speare, and sayd, I will smite Dauid through to the wall. But Dauid auoyded twise out of his presence.
1 Samuel 18:12	And Saul was afrayd of Dauid, because the Lord was with him, and was departed from Saul.
1 Samuel 18:13	Therefore Saul put him from him, and made him a captaine ouer a thousand, and he went out and in before the people.
1 Samuel 18:14	And Dauid behaued himselfe wisely in all his wayes: for the Lord was with him.
1 Samuel 18:15	Wherefore when Saul saw that he was very wise, he was afrayde of him.
1 Samuel 18:16	For all Israel and Iudah loued Dauid, because he went out and in before them.
1 Samuel 18:17	Then Saul sayd to Dauid, Beholde mine eldest daughter Merab, her I will giue thee to wife: onely be a valiant sonne vnto me, and fight the Lordes battels: for Saul thought, Mine hand shall not be vpon him, but the hand of the Philistims shalbe vpon him.
1 Samuel 18:18	And Dauid answered Saul, What am I? and what is my life, or the family of my father in Israel, that I should be sonne in law to the King?
1 Samuel 18:19	Howbeit when Merab Sauls daughter should haue bene giuen to Dauid, she was giuen vnto Adriel a Meholathite to wife.
1 Samuel 18:20	Then Michal Sauls daughter loued Dauid: and they shewed Saul, and the thing pleased him.
1 Samuel 18:21	Therefore Saul said, I wil giue him her, that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistims may bee against him. Wherefore Saul sayde to Dauid, Thou shalt this day be my sonne in law in the one of the twayne.
1 Samuel 18:22	And Saul commanded his seruants, Speake with Dauid secretly, and say, Behold, ye King hath a fauour to thee, and all his seruants loue thee: be now therefore the Kings sonne in law.
1 Samuel 18:23	And Sauls seruantes spake these wordes in the eares of Dauid. And Dauid sayd, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a Kings sonne in lawe, seeing that I am a poore man and of small reputation?
1 Samuel 18:24	And then Sauls seruats brought him word againe, saying, Such wordes spake Dauid.
1 Samuel 18:25	And Saul sayd, This wise shall ye say to Dauid, The King desireth no dowrie, but an hundred foreskinnes of the Philistims, to bee auenged of the Kings enemies: for Saul thought to make Dauid fall into the handes of the Philistims.
1 Samuel 18:26	And when his seruantes tolde Dauid these wordes, it pleased Dauid well, to be the Kings sonne in law: and the dayes were not expired.
1 Samuel 18:27	Afterwarde Dauid arose with his men, and went and slewe of the Philistims two hundreth men: and Dauid brought their foreskinnes, and they gaue them wholly to the King that hee might be the Kings sonne in lawe: therefore Saul gaue him Michal his daughter to wife.
1 Samuel 18:28	Then Saul sawe, and vnderstoode that the Lord was with Dauid, and that Michal the daughter of Saul loued him.
1 Samuel 18:29	Then Saul was more and more afrayde of Dauid, and Saul became alway Dauids enemie.
1 Samuel 18:30	And when the Princes of the Philistims went forth, at their going forth Dauid behaued himselfe more wisely then all the seruants of Saul, so that his name was much set by.
1 Samuel 19:1	Then Saul spake to Ionathan his sonne, and to all his seruantes, that they shoulde kill Dauid: but Ionathan Sauls sonne had a great fauour to Dauid.
1 Samuel 19:2	And Ionathan told Dauid, saying, Saul my father goeth about to slay thee: nowe therefore, I pray thee, take heede vnto thy selfe vnto the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thy selfe.
1 Samuel 19:3	And I will go out, and stand by my father in the fielde where thou art, and will commune with my father of thee, and I will see what he sayth, and will tell thee.
1 Samuel 19:4	And Ionathan spake good of Dauid vnto Saul his father, and said vnto him, Let not the King sinne against his seruat, against Dauid: for he hath not sinned against thee, but his works haue bene to thee very good.
1 Samuel 19:5	For he did put his life in daunger, and slew the Philistim, and the Lord wrought a great saluation for al Israel: thou sawest it, and thou reioycedst: wherefore then wilt thou sinne against innocent blood, and slay Dauid without a cause?
1 Samuel 19:6	Then Saul hearkened vnto the voyce of Ionathan, and Saul sware, As the Lord liueth, he shall not dye.
1 Samuel 19:7	So Ionathan called Dauid, and Ionathan shewed him all those words, and Ionathan brought Dauid to Saul, and hee was in his presence as in times past.
1 Samuel 19:8	Againe the warre began, and Dauid went out and fought with the Philistims, and slew them with a great slaughter, and they fled from him.
1 Samuel 19:9	And the euill spirit of the Lord was vpon Saul, as hee sate in his house hauing his speare in his hand, and Dauid played with his hand.
1 Samuel 19:10	And Saul intended to smite Dauid to the wall with the speare: but hee turned aside out of Sauls presence, and he smote the speare against the wall: but Dauid fled, and escaped the same night.
1 Samuel 19:11	Saul also sent messengers vnto Dauids house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning: and Michal Dauids wife told it him, saying, If thou saue not thy selfe this night, to morowe thou shalt be slayne.
1 Samuel 19:12	So Michal let Dauid downe through a window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.
1 Samuel 19:13	Then Michal tooke an image, and layde it in the bed, and put a pillow stuffed with goates heare vnder the head of it, and couered it with a cloth.
1 Samuel 19:14	And when Saul sent messengers to take Dauid, she sayd, He is sicke.
1 Samuel 19:15	And Saul sent the messengers againe to see Dauid, saying, Bring him to me in the bed, that I may slay him.
1 Samuel 19:16	And when the messengers were come in, behold, an image was in the bed, with a pillow of goates heare vnder the head of it.
1 Samuel 19:17	And Saul said vnto Michal, Why hast thou mocked me so, and sent away mine enemie, that he is escaped? And Michal answered Saul, He said vnto me, Let me go, or els I will kill thee.
1 Samuel 19:18	So Dauid fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him: and he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.
1 Samuel 19:19	But one tolde Saul, saying, Beholde, Dauid is at Naioth in Ramah.
1 Samuel 19:20	And Saul sent messengers to take Dauid: and when they sawe a company of Prophets prophecying, and Samuel standing as appoynted ouer them, the Spirit of God fell vpon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophecied.
1 Samuel 19:21	And when it was tolde Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophecied likewise: againe Saul sent the third messengers, and they prophecied also.
1 Samuel 19:22	Then went he himselfe to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in Sechu, and he asked, and sayd, Where are Samuel and Dauid? and one sayd, Behold, they be at Naioth in Ramah.
1 Samuel 19:23	And he went thither, euen to Naioth in Ramah, and the Spirit of God came vpon him also, and he went prophecying vntill hee came to Naioth in Ramah.
1 Samuel 19:24	And he stript off his clothes, and he prophesied also before Samuel, and fell downe naked all that day and all that night: therefore they say, Is Saul also among the Prophets?
1 Samuel 20:1	And Dauid fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and sayd before Ionathan, What haue I done? what is mine iniquitie? and what sinne haue I committed before thy father, that he seeketh my life?
1 Samuel 20:2	And he sayde vnto him, God forbid, thou shalt not die: beholde, my father will do nothing great nor small, but he will shewe it me: and why should my father hide this thing from me? he will not doe it.
1 Samuel 20:3	And Dauid sware againe and sayd, Thy father knoweth that I haue found grace in thine eyes: therefore he thinketh, Ionathan shall not knowe it, lest he be sorie: but in deede, as the Lord liueth, and as thy soule liueth, there is but a step betweene me and death.
1 Samuel 20:4	Then said Ionathan vnto Dauid, Whatsoeuer thy soule requireth, that I wil do vnto thee.
1 Samuel 20:5	And Dauid said vnto Ionathan, Behold, to morowe is the first day of the moneth, and I shoulde sit with the King at meate: but let me goe, that I may hide my selfe in the fieldes vnto the third day at euen.
1 Samuel 20:6	If thy father make mention of me, then say, Dauid asked leaue of me, that he might goe to Beth-lehem to his owne citie: for there is a yeerely sacrifice for all that familie.
1 Samuel 20:7	And if he say thus, It is well, thy seruant shall haue peace: but if he be angrie, be sure that wickednesse is concluded of him.
1 Samuel 20:8	So shalt thou shew mercy vnto thy seruant: for thou hast ioyned thy seruant into a couenant of the Lord with thee, and if there be in me iniquitie, slay thou me: for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?
1 Samuel 20:9	And Ionathan answered, God keepe that from thee: for if I knewe that wickednesse were concluded of my father to come vpon thee, would not I tell it thee?
1 Samuel 20:10	Then said Dauid to Ionathan, Who shall tell me? how shall I knowe, if thy father answere thee cruelly?
1 Samuel 20:11	And Ionathan sayde to Dauid, Come and let vs goe out into the fielde: and they twaine went out into the fielde.
1 Samuel 20:12	Then Ionathan sayde to Dauid, O Lord God of Israel, when I haue groped my fathers minde to morow at this time, or within this three dayes, and if it be well with Dauid, and I then send not vnto thee, and shewe it thee,
1 Samuel 20:13	The Lord doe so and much more vnto Ionathan: but if my father haue minde to doe thee euill, I will shew thee also, and sende thee away, that thou mayest goe in peace: and the Lord be with thee as he hath bene with my father.
1 Samuel 20:14	Likewise I require not whiles I liue: for I dout not but thou wilt shew me the mercy of the Lord, that I die not.
1 Samuel 20:15	But I require that thou cut not off thy mercie from mine house for euer: no, not when the Lord hath destroyed the enemies of Dauid, euery one from the earth.
1 Samuel 20:16	So Ionathan made a bond with the house of Dauid, saying, Let the Lord require it at the hands of Dauids enemies.
1 Samuel 20:17	And againe Ionathan sware vnto Dauid, because he loued him (for he loued him as his owne soule)
1 Samuel 20:18	Then said Ionathan to him, To morowe is the first day of the moneth: and thou shalt be looked for, for thy place shalbe emptie.
1 Samuel 20:19	Therefore thou shalt hide thy selfe three dayes, then thou shalt goe downe quickely and come to the place where thou diddest hide thy selfe, when this matter was in hand, and shalt remayne by the stone Ezel.
1 Samuel 20:20	And I will shoote three arrowes on the side thereof, as though I shot at a marke.
1 Samuel 20:21	And after I wil sende a boy, saying, Goe, seeke the arrowes. If I say vnto the boy, See, the arrowes are on this side thee, bring them, and come thou: for it is well with thee and no hurt, as the Lord liueth.
1 Samuel 20:22	But if I say thus vnto the boy, Behold, the arrowes are beyonde thee, goe thy way: for the Lord hath sent thee away.
1 Samuel 20:23	As touching the thing which thou and I haue spoken of, beholde, the Lord be betweene thee and me for euer.
1 Samuel 20:24	So Dauid hid him selfe in the field: and when the first day of the moneth came, the King sate to eate meate.
1 Samuel 20:25	And the King sate, as at other times vpon his seate, euen vpon his seate by the wall: and Ionathan arose, and Abner sate by Sauls side, but Dauids place was emptie.
1 Samuel 20:26	And Saul sayde nothing that day: for hee thought, Some thing hath befallen him, though he were cleane, or els becaus he was not purified.
1 Samuel 20:27	But on the morowe which was the second day of the moneth, Dauids place was emptie againe: and Saul sayde vnto Ionathan his sonne, Wherefore commeth not the sonne of Ishai to meate, neither yesterday nor to day?
1 Samuel 20:28	And Ionathan answered vnto Saul, Dauid required of me, that he might goe to Beth-lehem.
1 Samuel 20:29	For he sayde, Let me goe, I pray thee: for our familie offreth a sacrifice in the citie, and my brother hath sent for me: therfore now if I haue found fauour in thine eyes, let me goe, I pray thee, and see my brethren: this is the cause that he commeth not vnto the Kings table.
1 Samuel 20:30	Then was Saul angrie with Ionathan, and sayde vnto him, Thou sonne of the wicked rebellious woman, doe not I know, that thou hast chosen the sonne of Ishai to thy confusion, and to the confusion and shame of thy mother?
1 Samuel 20:31	For as long as the sonne of Ishai liueth vpon the earth, thou shalt not be stablished, nor thy kingdome: wherefore now send and fet him vnto me, for he shall surely die.
1 Samuel 20:32	And Ionathan answered vnto Saul his father, and said vnto him, Wherefore shall he die? what hath he done?
1 Samuel 20:33	And Saul cast a speare at him to hit him, whereby Ionathan knew, that it was determined of his father to slay Dauid.
1 Samuel 20:34	So Ionathan arose from the table in a great anger, and did eate no meate the seconde day of the moneth: for he was sorie for Dauid, and because his father had reuiled him.
1 Samuel 20:35	On the next morning therefore Ionathan than went out into the fielde, at the time appoynted with Dauid, and a litle boy with him.
1 Samuel 20:36	And he saide vnto his boy, Runne now, seeke the arrowes which I shoote, and as the boy ran, he shot an arrowe beyond him.
1 Samuel 20:37	And when the boy was come to the place where the arrowe was that Ionathan had shot, Ionathan cryed after the boy, and sayde, Is not the arrowe beyond thee?
1 Samuel 20:38	And Ionathan cryed after the boy, Make speede, haste and stand not still: and Ionathans boy gathered vp the arrowes, and came to his master,
1 Samuel 20:39	But the boy knewe nothing: onely Ionathan and Dauid knew the matter.
1 Samuel 20:40	Then Ionathan gaue his bowe and arrowes vnto the boy that was with him, and sayd vnto him, Goe, carrie them into the citie.
1 Samuel 20:41	Assoone as the boy was gone, Dauid arose out of a place that was towarde the South, and fel on his face to the ground, and bowed him selfe three times: and they kissed one another, and wept both twaine, till Dauid exceeded.
1 Samuel 20:42	Therefore Ionathan said to Dauid, Goe in peace: that which we haue sworne both of vs in the Name of the Lord, saying, The Lord be betweene me and thee, and betweene my seede and betweene thy seede, let it stand for euer.
1 Samuel 20:43	And he arose and departed, and Ionathan went into the citie.
1 Samuel 21:1	Then came Dauid to Nob, to Ahimelech the Priest, and Ahimelech was astonied at the meeting of Dauid, and saide vnto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?
1 Samuel 21:2	And Dauid saide to Ahimelech the Priest, The King hath commanded mee a certaine thing, and hath sayd vnto me, Let no man know whereabout I sende thee, and what I haue commanded thee: and I haue appointed my seruants to such and such places.
1 Samuel 21:3	Nowe therefore if thou hast ought vnder thine hande, giue me fiue cakes of bread, or what commeth to hand.
1 Samuel 21:4	And the Priest answered Dauid, and saide, There is no common bread vnder mine hande, but here is halowed bread, if the yong men haue kept themselues, at least from women.
1 Samuel 21:5	Dauid then answered the Priest, and sayde vnto him, Certainely women haue bene separarate from vs these two or three dayes since I came out: and the vessels of the yong men were holy, though the way were prophane, and how much more then shall euery one be sanctified this day in the vessell?
1 Samuel 21:6	So the Priest gaue him halowed bread: for there was no bread there, saue the shewe bread that was taken from before the Lord, to put hote bread there, the day that it was taken away.
1 Samuel 21:7	(And there was the same day one of the seruants of Saul abiding before the Lord, named Doeg the Edomite, the chiefest of Sauls heardmen)
1 Samuel 21:8	And Dauid said vnto Ahimelech, Is there not here vnder thine hand a speare or a sworde? for I haue neither brought my sworde nor mine harnesse with me, because the Kings businesse required haste.
1 Samuel 21:9	And the Priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistim, whom thou slewest in the valley of Elah, behold, it is wrapt in a cloth behinde the Ephod: if thou wilt take that to thee, take it: for there is none other saue that here: And Dauid sayd, There is none to that, giue it me.
1 Samuel 21:10	And Dauid arose and fled the same day from the presence of Saul, and went to Achish the King of Gath.
1 Samuel 21:11	And the seruants of Achish said vnto him, Is not this Dauid the King of the land? did they not sing vnto him in daunces, saying, Saul hath slayne his thousand, and Dauid his ten thousande?
1 Samuel 21:12	And Dauid considered these wordes, and was sore afraide of Achish the King of Gath.
1 Samuel 21:13	And hee changed his behauiour before them, and fayned him selfe mad in their handes, and scrabled on the doores of the gate, and let his spettel fall downe vpon his beard.
1 Samuel 21:14	Then said Achish vnto his seruants, Lo, ye see the man is beside him selfe, wherefore haue ye brought him to me?
1 Samuel 21:15	Haue I neede of mad men, that ye haue brought this fellowe to play the mad man in my presence? shall he come into mine house?
1 Samuel 22:1	Dauid therefore departed thence, and saued him selfe in the caue of Adullam: and when his brethren and all his fathers house heard it, they went downe thither to him.
1 Samuel 22:2	And there gathered vnto him all men that were in trouble and all men that were in dette, and all those that were vexed in minde, and he was their prince, and there were with him about foure hundreth men.
1 Samuel 22:3	And Dauid went thence to Mizpeh in Moab, and said vnto the King of Moab, I pray thee, let my father and my mother come and abide with you, till I knowe what God wil doe for me.
1 Samuel 22:4	And he brought them before the King of Moab, and they dwelt with him all the while that Dauid was in the holde.
1 Samuel 22:5	And the Prophet Gad sayde vnto Dauid, Abide not in the holde, but depart and goe into the land of Iudah. Then Dauid departed and came into the forest of Hareth.
1 Samuel 22:6	And Saul heard that Dauid was discouered, and the men that were with him, and Saul remayned in Gibeah vnder a tree in Ramah, hauing his speare in his hande, and all his seruants stoode about him.
1 Samuel 22:7	And Saul said vnto his seruants that stood about him, Heare now, ye sonnes of Iemini, wil the sonne of Ishai giue euery one of you fields and vineyardes: will he make you all captaines ouer thousands, and captaines ouer hundreths:
1 Samuel 22:8	That all ye haue conspired against me, and there is none that tellerh mee that my sonne hath made a couenant with the sonne of Ishai? and there is none of you that is sory for me, or sheweth mee, that my sonne hath stirred vp my seruant to lie in wayte against me, as appeareth this day?
1 Samuel 22:9	Then answered Doeg the Edomite (who was appoynted ouer the seruants of Saul) and sayd, I saw the sonne of Ishai when he came to Nob, to Ahimelech the sonne of Ahitub,
1 Samuel 22:10	Who asked counsell of the Lord for him and gaue him vitailes, and he gaue him also the sword of Goliath the Philistim.
1 Samuel 22:11	Then the King sent to call Ahimelech the Priest the sonne of Ahitub, and all his fathers house, to wit, the Priests that were in Nob: and they came all to the King.
1 Samuel 22:12	And Saul said, Heare now thou sonne of Ahitub. And he answered, Here I am, my lord.
1 Samuel 22:13	Then Saul sayde vnto him, Why haue yee conspired against me, thou and the sonne of Ishai, in that thou hast giuen him vitaile, and a sworde, and hast asked counsell of God for him, that he should rise against me, and lye in wayte as appeareth this day?
1 Samuel 22:14	And Ahimelech answered the King, and sayde, Who is so faithfull among all thy seruants as Dauid, being also the Kings sonne in lawe, and goeth at thy commandement, and is honourable in thine house?
1 Samuel 22:15	Haue I this day first begun to aske counsell of God for him? be it farre from mee, let not the King impute any thing vnto his seruant, nor to all the house of my father: for thy seruant knew nothing of all this, lesse nor more.
1 Samuel 22:16	Then the King sayd, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy fathers house.
1 Samuel 22:17	And the King sayde vnto the sergeantes that stoode about him, Turne, and slay the Priestes of the Lord, because their hand also is with Dauid, and because they knewe when he fled, and shewed it not vnto mee. But the seruantes of the King would not moue their hands to fall vpon the Priests of the Lord.
1 Samuel 22:18	Then the King sayde to Doeg, Turne thou and fall vpon the Priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned, and ran vpon the Priestes, and slewe that same daye foure score and fiue persons that did weare a linen Ephod.
1 Samuel 22:19	Also Nob the citie of the Priestes smote he with the edge of the sword, both man and woman, both childe and suckling, both oxe and asse, and sheepe with the edge of the sword.
1 Samuel 22:20	But one of the sonnes of Ahimelech the sonne of Ahitub (whose name was Abiathar) escaped and fled after Dauid.
1 Samuel 22:21	And Abiathar shewed Dauid, that Saul had slayne the Lords Priestes.
1 Samuel 22:22	And Dauid sayd vnto Abiathar, I knewe it the same day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would tell Saul. I am the cause of the death of all the persons of thy fathers house.
1 Samuel 22:23	Abide thou with me, and feare not: for he that seeketh my life, shall seeke thy life also: for with me thou shalt be in safegard.
1 Samuel 23:1	Then they tolde Dauid, saying, Beholde, the Philistims fight against Keilah, and spoyle the barnes.
1 Samuel 23:2	Therfore Dauid asked counsel of the Lord, saying, Shal I goe and smite these Philistims? And the Lord answered Dauid, Go and smite the Philistims, and saue Keilah.
1 Samuel 23:3	And Dauids men said vnto him, See, we be afrayde here in Iudah, howe much more if we come to Keilah against the hoste of ye Philistims?
1 Samuel 23:4	Then Dauid asked counsell of the Lord againe. And the Lord answered him, and sayd, Arise, go downe to Keilah: for I wil deliuer the Philistims into thine hand.
1 Samuel 23:5	So Dauid and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistims, and brought away their cattel, and smote them with a great slaughter: thus Dauid saued the inhabitants of Keilah.
1 Samuel 23:6	(And when Abiathar the sonne of Ahimelech fled to Dauid to Keilah, he brought an Ephod with him)
1 Samuel 23:7	And it was tolde Saul that Dauid was come to Keilah, and Saul sayd, God hath deliuered him into mine hand: for he is shut in, seeing he is come into a citie that hath gates and barres.
1 Samuel 23:8	Then Saul called all the people together to warre, for to go downe to Keilah, and to besiege Dauid and his men.
1 Samuel 23:9	And Dauid hauing knowledge that Saul imagined mischiefe against him, saide to Abiathar the Priest, Bring the Ephod.
1 Samuel 23:10	Then sayde Dauid, O Lord God of Israel, thy seruat hath heard, that Saul is about to come to Keilah to destroy the citie for my sake.
1 Samuel 23:11	Wil the lordes of Keilah deliuer me vp into his hand? and will Saul come downe, as thy seruant hath heard? O Lord God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy seruant. And the Lord sayde, He will come downe.
1 Samuel 23:12	Then said Dauid, Will the lords of Keilah deliuer me vp, and the men that are with me, into the hand of Saul? And the Lord sayde, They will deliuer thee vp.
1 Samuel 23:13	Then Dauid and his men, which were about sixe hundreth, arose, and departed out of Keilah, and went whither they coulde. And it was tolde Saul, that Dauid was fled from Keilah, and he left off his iourney.
1 Samuel 23:14	And Dauid abode in the wildernesse in holdes, and remayned in a mountaine in the wildernes of Ziph. And Saul sought him euery day, but God deliuered him not into his hand.
1 Samuel 23:15	And Dauid sawe that Saul was come out for to seeke his life: and Dauid was in the wildernes of Ziph in the wood.
1 Samuel 23:16	And Ionathan Sauls sonne arose and went to Dauid into the wood, and comforted him in God,
1 Samuel 23:17	And said vnto him, Feare not: for the hand of Saul my father shall not finde thee, and thou shalt be King ouer Israel, and I shalbe next vnto thee: and also Saul my father knoweth it.
1 Samuel 23:18	So they twaine made a couenant before ye Lord: and Dauid did remaine in the wood: but Ionathan went to his house.
1 Samuel 23:19	Then came vp the Ziphims to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doeth not Dauid hide himselfe by vs in holdes, in the wood in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the right side of Ieshimon?
1 Samuel 23:20	Nowe therefore, O King, come downe according to all that thine heart can desire, and our part shall be to deliuer him into the Kinges handes.
1 Samuel 23:21	Then Saul said, Be ye blessed of the Lord: for ye haue had compassion on mee.
1 Samuel 23:22	Goe, I pray you, and prepare ye yet better: know and see his place where he haunteth, and who hath seene him there: for it is sayd to me, He is subtile, and craftie.
1 Samuel 23:23	See therefore and know all the secret places where he hideth himselfe, and come ye againe to me with the certaintie, and I will goe with you: and if he be in the lande, I will searche him out throughout all the thousands of Iudah.
1 Samuel 23:24	Then they arose and went to Ziph before Saul, but Dauid and his men were in the wildernesse of Maon, in the playne on the right hande of Ieshimon.
1 Samuel 23:25	Saul also and his men went to seeke him, and they told Dauid: wherefore he came downe vnto a rocke, and abode in the wildernesse of Maon. And when Saul heard that, he folowed after Dauid in the wildernes of Maon.
1 Samuel 23:26	And Saul and his men went on the one side of the mountaine, and Dauid and his men on the other side of the mountaine: and Dauid made haste to get from the presence of Saul: for Saul and his men compassed Dauid and his men round about, to take them.
1 Samuel 23:27	But there came a messenger to Saul, saying, Haste thee, and come: for the Philistims haue inuaded the land.
1 Samuel 23:28	Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing Dauid, and went against the Philistims. Therefore they called that place, Sela-hammahlekoth.
1 Samuel 24:1	And Dauid went thence, and dwelt in holdes at En-gedi.
1 Samuel 24:2	When Saul was turned from ye Philistims, they told him, saying, Behold, Dauid is in the wildernes of En-gedi.
1 Samuel 24:3	Then Saul tooke three thousande chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seeke Dauid and his men vpon the rocks among the wilde goates.
1 Samuel 24:4	And hee came to the sheepecoates by the way where there was a caue, and Saul went in to do his easement: and Dauid and his men sate in the inward parts of the caue.
1 Samuel 24:5	And the men of Dauid said vnto him, See, the day is come, whereof the Lord sayde vnto thee, Beholde, I will deliuer thine enemie into thine hande, and thou shalt doe to him as it shall seeme good to thee. Then Dauid arose and cut off the lap of Sauls garment priuily.
1 Samuel 24:6	And afterward Dauid was touched in his heart, because he had cut off the lappe which was on Sauls garment.
1 Samuel 24:7	And he said vnto his men, The Lord keepe mee from doing that thing vnto my master the Lords Anoynted, to lay mine hand vpon him: for he is the Anoynted of the Lord.
1 Samuel 24:8	So Dauid ouercame his seruants with these words, and suffered them not to arise against Saul: so Saul rose vp out of the caue and went away.
1 Samuel 24:9	Dauid also arose afterward, and went out of the caue, and cryed after Saul, saying, O my lorde the King. And when Saul looked behinde him, Dauid inclined his face to the earth, and bowed himselfe.
1 Samuel 24:10	And Dauid saide to Saul, Wherefore giuest thou an eare to mens words, that say, Behold, Dauid seeketh euill against thee?
1 Samuel 24:11	Behold, this day thine eyes haue seene, that the Lord had deliuered thee this day into mine hand in the caue, and some bade me kill thee, but I had compassion on thee, and said, I will not lay mine hande on my master: for he is the Lordes Anoynted.
1 Samuel 24:12	Moreouer my father, behold: behold, I say, the lappe of thy garment in mine hand: for when I cut off the lappe of thy garment, I killed thee not. Vnderstad and see, that there is neither euil nor wickednesse in mee, neither haue I sinned against thee, yet thou huntest after my soule to take it.
1 Samuel 24:13	The Lord be iudge betweene thee and me, and the Lord auenge me of thee, and let not mine hand be vpon thee.
1 Samuel 24:14	According as the olde prouerbe sayeth, Wickednesse proceedeth from the wicked, but mine hand be not vpon thee.
1 Samuel 24:15	After whom is the King of Israel come out? after whome doest thou pursue? after a dead dog, and after a flea?
1 Samuel 24:16	The Lord therfore be iudge, and iudge betweene thee and me, and see, and pleade my cause, and deliuer me out of thine hand.
1 Samuel 24:17	Whe Dauid had made an end of speaking these words to Saul, Saul sayd, Is this thy voyce, my sonne Dauid? and Saul lift vp his voice, and wept,
1 Samuel 24:18	And sayd to Dauid, Thou art more righteous then I: for thou hast rendred me good, and I haue rendred thee euill.
1 Samuel 24:19	And thou hast shewed this day, that thou hast dealt well with me: forasmuch as when the Lord had closed me in thine hands, thou killedst me not.
1 Samuel 24:20	For who shall finde his enemie, and let him depart free? wherefore the Lord render thee good for that thou hast done vnto me this day.
1 Samuel 24:21	For now behold, I know that thou shalt be King, and that the kingdome of Israel shall be stablished in thine hand.
1 Samuel 24:22	Sweare now therfore vnto me by the Lord, that thou wilt not destroy my seede after me, and that thou wilt not abolish my name out of my fathers house.
1 Samuel 24:23	So Dauid sware vnto Saul, and Saul went home: but Dauid and his men went vp vnto ye hold.
1 Samuel 25:1	Then Samuel dyed, and all Israel assembled, and mourned for him, and buried him in his owne house at Ramah. And Dauid arose and went downe to the wildernes of Paran.
1 Samuel 25:2	Now in Maon was a man, who had his possessio in Carmel, and the man was exceeding mightie and had three thousand sheepe, and a thousand goates: and he was shering his sheepe in Carmel.
1 Samuel 25:3	The name also of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail, and she was a woman of singular wisdome, and beautifull, but the man was churlish, and euil conditioned, and was of the familie of Caleb.
1 Samuel 25:4	And Dauid heard in the wildernesse, that Nabal did shere his sheepe.
1 Samuel 25:5	Therefore Dauid sent tenne yong men, and Dauid said vnto the yong men, Go vp to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and aske him in my name how he doeth.
1 Samuel 25:6	And thus shall ye say for salutation, Both thou, and thine house, and all that thou hast, be in peace, wealth and prosperitie.
1 Samuel 25:7	Behold, I haue heard, that thou hast sherers: now thy shepherds were with vs, and we did the no hurt, neyther did they misse any thing all the while they were in Carmel.
1 Samuel 25:8	Aske thy seruants and they wil shew thee. Wherefore let these yong men finde fauour in thine eyes: (for we come in a good season) giue, I pray thee, whatsoeuer commeth to thine hand vnto thy seruants, and to thy sonne Dauid.
1 Samuel 25:9	And when Dauids yong men came, they tolde Nabal all those wordes in the name of Dauid, and helde their peace.
1 Samuel 25:10	Then Nabal answered Dauids seruantes, and sayd, Who is Dauid? and who is the sonne of Ishai? there be many seruantes nowe a dayes, that breake away euery man from his master.
1 Samuel 25:11	Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I haue killed for my sherers, and giue it vnto men, whom I know not whence they be?
1 Samuel 25:12	So Dauids seruants turned their way, and went againe, and came, and tolde him all those things.
1 Samuel 25:13	And Dauid said vnto his men, Girde euery man his sword about him. And they girded euery man his sworde: Dauid also girded his sworde. And about foure hundreth men went vp after Dauid, and two hundreth abode by the cariage.
1 Samuel 25:14	Nowe one of the seruantes tolde Abigail Nabals wife, saying, Beholde, Dauid sent messengers out of the wildernesse to salute our master, and he rayled on them.
1 Samuel 25:15	Notwithstanding the men were very good vnto vs, and we had no displeasure, neither missed we any thing as long as we were conuersant with them, when we were in the fieldes.
1 Samuel 25:16	They were as a wall vnto vs both by night and by day, all the while we were with them keeping sheepe.
1 Samuel 25:17	Nowe therefore take heede, and see what thou shalt doe: for euill will surely come vpon our master, and vpon all his familie: for he is so wicked that a man can not speake to him.
1 Samuel 25:18	Then Abigail made haste, and tooke two hundreth cakes, and two bottels of wine, and fiue sheepe ready dressed, and fiue measures of parched corne, and an hundreth frailes of raisins, and two hundreth of figs, and laded them on asses.
1 Samuel 25:19	Then she said vnto her seruants, Go ye before me: beholde, I will come after you: yet she tolde not her husband Nabal.
1 Samuel 25:20	And as shee rode on her asse, shee came downe by a secret place of the mountaine, and beholde, Dauid and his men came downe against her, and she met them.
1 Samuel 25:21	And Dauid said, In deede I haue kept all in vaine that this fellow had in the wildernesse, so that nothing was missed of all that pertained vnto him: for he hath requited me euill for good.
1 Samuel 25:22	So and more also doe God vnto the enemies of Dauid: for surely I will not leaue of all that he hath, by the dawning of the day, any that pisseth against the wall.
1 Samuel 25:23	And when Abigail sawe Dauid, she hasted and lighted off her asse, and fell before Dauid on her face, and bowed her selfe to the ground,
1 Samuel 25:24	And fel at his feete, and sayd, Oh, my lord, I haue committed the iniquitie, and I pray thee, let thine handmayde speake to thee, and heare thou the wordes of thine handmayde.
1 Samuel 25:25	Let not my lorde, I pray thee, regard this wicked man Nabal: for as his name is, so is he: Nabal is his name, and follie is with him: but I thine handmayde sawe not the yong men of my lord whom thou sentest.
1 Samuel 25:26	Now therefore my lord, as the Lord liueth, and as thy soule liueth (the Lord, I say, that hath withholden thee from comming to shedde blood, and that thine hand should not saue thee) so now thine enemies shall be as Nabal, and they that intend to doe my lord euill.
1 Samuel 25:27	And now, this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought vnto my lorde, let it be giuen vnto the yong men, that follow my lord.
1 Samuel 25:28	I pray thee, forgiue the trespasse of thine handmaide: for the Lord will make my lorde a sure house, because my lord fighteth the battels of the Lord, and none euill hath bene found in thee in all thy life.
1 Samuel 25:29	Yet a man hath risen vp to persecute thee, and to seeke thy soule, but the soule of my lorde shall be bounde in the bundel of life with the Lord thy God: and the soule of thine enemies shall God cast out, as out of the middle of a sling.
1 Samuel 25:30	And when the Lord shall haue done to my lord al the good that he hath promised thee, and shall haue made thee ruler ouer Israel,
1 Samuel 25:31	Then shall it be no griefe vnto thee, nor offence of minde vnto my lord, that he hath not shed blood causelesse, nor that my lorde hath not preserued him selfe: and when the Lord shall haue dealt well with my lorde, remember thine handmaide.
1 Samuel 25:32	Then Dauid said to Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which sent thee this day to meete me.
1 Samuel 25:33	And blessed be thy counsel, and blessed be thou, which hast kept me this day from comming to shed blood, and that mine hand hath not saued me.
1 Samuel 25:34	For in deede, as the Lord God of Israel liueth, who hath kept me backe from hurting thee, except thou haddest hasted and met mee, surely there had not bene left vnto Nabal by the dawning of the day, any that pisseth against the wall.
1 Samuel 25:35	Then Dauid receiued of her hande that which she had brought him, and said to her, Goe vp in peace to thine house: beholde, I haue heard thy voyce, and haue graunted thy petition.
1 Samuel 25:36	So Abigail came to Nabal, and behold, he made a feast in his house, like the feast of a King, and Nabals heart was merie within him, for he was very drunken: wherefore shee tolde him nothing, neither lesse nor more, vntil the morning arose.
1 Samuel 25:37	Then in the morning when the wine was gone out of Nabal, his wife tolde him those wordes, and his heart died within him, and he was like a stone.
1 Samuel 25:38	And about ten dayes after, the Lord smote Nabal, that he dyed.
1 Samuel 25:39	Now when Dauid heard, that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be the Lord that hath iudged the cause of my rebuke of ye hand of Nabal, and hath kept his seruant from euil: for the Lord hath recompensed the wickednesse of Nabal vpon his owne head. Also Dauid sent to commune with Abigail to take her to his wife.
1 Samuel 25:40	And whe the seruants of Dauid were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spake vnto her, saying, Dauid sent vs to thee, to take thee to his wife.
1 Samuel 25:41	And she arose, and bowed her selfe on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thine handmayde be a seruant to wash the feete of the seruants of my lord.
1 Samuel 25:42	And Abigail hasted, and arose, and rode vpon an asse, and her fiue maides folowed her, and she went after the messengers of Dauid, and was his wife.
1 Samuel 25:43	Dauid also tooke Ahinoam of Izreel, and they were both his wiues.
1 Samuel 25:44	Now Saul had giuen Michal his daughter Dauids wife to Phalti the sonne of Laish, which was of Gallim.
1 Samuel 26:1	Againe the Ziphims came vnto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doeth not Dauid hide him selfe in the hill of Hachilah before Ieshimon?
1 Samuel 26:2	Then Saul arose, and went downe to the wildernes of Ziph, hauing three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, for to seeke Dauid in the wildernesse of Ziph.
1 Samuel 26:3	And Saul pitched in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Ieshimon by the way side. Now Dauid abode in the wildernesse, and he sawe that Saul came after him into the wildernesse.
1 Samuel 26:4	(For Dauid had sent out spies, and vnderstood, that Saul was come in very deede)
1 Samuel 26:5	Then Dauid arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched, and when Dauid beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the sonne of Ner which was his chiefe captaine, (for Saul lay in the fort, and the people pitched round about him)
1 Samuel 26:6	Then spake Dauid, and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the sonne of Zeruiah, brother to Ioab, saying, Who will go downe with me to Saul to the hoste? Then Abishai said, I will goe downe with thee.
1 Samuel 26:7	So Dauid and Abishai came downe to the people by night: and beholde, Saul lay sleeping within the fort, and his speare did sticke in the ground at his head: and Abner and the people lay round about him.
1 Samuel 26:8	Then saide Abishai to Dauid, God hath closed thine enemie into thine hande this day: now therefore, I pray thee, let me smite him once with a speare to the earth, and I will not smite him againe.
1 Samuel 26:9	And Dauid sayde to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can lay his hand on the Lordes anoynted, and be giltlesse?
1 Samuel 26:10	Moreouer Dauid said, As the Lord liueth, eyther the Lord shall smite him, or his day shall come to dye, or he shall descend into battel, and perish.
1 Samuel 26:11	The Lord keepe mee from laying mine hand vpon the Lordes anointed: but, I pray thee, take now the speare that is at his head, and the pot of water, and let vs goe hence.
1 Samuel 26:12	So Dauid tooke the speare and the pot of water from Sauls head, and they gate them away, and no man saw it, nor marked it, neither did any awake, but they were all asleepe: for the Lord had sent a dead sleepe vpon them.
1 Samuel 26:13	Then Dauid went vnto the other side, and stoode on the toppe of an hill a farre off, a great space being betweene them.
1 Samuel 26:14	And Dauid cryed to the people, and to Abner the sonne of Ner, saying, Hearest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered, and said, Who art thou that cryest to the King?
1 Samuel 26:15	And Dauid said to Abner, Art not thou a man? and who is like thee in Israel? wherefore then hast thou not kept thy lorde the King? for there came one of the folke in to destroy the King thy lord.
1 Samuel 26:16	This is not well done of thee: as the Lord liueth, ye are worthy to dye, because ye haue not kept your master the Lordes Anointed: and now see where the Kings speare is, and the pot of water that was at his head.
1 Samuel 26:17	And Saul knewe Dauids voyce, and sayde, Is this thy voyce, my sonne Dauid? And Dauid sayde, It is my voyce, my lorde O King.
1 Samuel 26:18	And he sayde, Wherefore doeth my lorde thus persecute his seruant? for what haue I done? or what euill is in mine hand?
1 Samuel 26:19	Now therefore, I beseech thee, let my lord the King heare the wordes of his seruant. If the Lord haue stirred thee vp against me, let him smell the sauour of a sacrifice: but if the children of men haue done it, cursed be they before the Lord: for they haue cast me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the Lord, saying, Goe, serue other gods.
1 Samuel 26:20	Nowe therefore let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of the Lord: for the King of Israel is come out to seeke a flea, as one would hunt a partridge in the mountaines.
1 Samuel 26:21	Then sayde Saul, I haue sinned: come againe, my sonne Dauid: for I will doe thee no more harme, because my soule was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I haue done foolishly, and haue erred exceedingly.
1 Samuel 26:22	Then Dauid answered, and saide, Beholde the Kings speare, let one of the yong men come ouer and set it.
1 Samuel 26:23	And let the Lord rewarde euery man according to his righteousnesse and faithfulnesse: for the Lord had deliuered thee into mine handes this day, but I woulde not lay mine hand vpon the Lords anointed.
1 Samuel 26:24	And beholde, like as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes: so let my life be set by in the eyes of the Lord, that he may deliuer me out of all tribulation.
1 Samuel 26:25	Then Saul said to Dauid, Blessed art thou, my sonne Dauid: for thou shalt doe great things, and also preuaile. So Dauid went his way, and Saul returned to his place.
1 Samuel 27:1	And Dauid said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul: is it not better for me that I saue my selfe in the lande of the Philistims, and that Saul may haue no hope of me to seeke me any more in all the coastes of Israel, and so escape out of his hand?
1 Samuel 27:2	Dauid therefore arose, and he, and the sixe hundreth men that were with him, went vnto Achish the sonne of Maoch King of Gath.
1 Samuel 27:3	And Dauid dwelt with Achish at Gath, he, and his men, euery man with his housholde, Dauid with his two wiues, Ahinoam the Izreelite, and Abigail Nabals wife the Carmelite.
1 Samuel 27:4	And it was tolde Saul that Dauid was fled to Gath: so he sought no more for him.
1 Samuel 27:5	And Dauid saide vnto Achish, If I haue nowe founde peace in thine eyes, let them giue me a place in some other citie of the countrey, that I may dwell there: for why should thy seruant dwel in ye head citie of the kingdome with thee?
1 Samuel 27:6	Then Achish gaue him Ziklag that same day: therefore Ziklag pertaineth vnto the kings of Iudah vnto this day.
1 Samuel 27:7	And the time that Dauid dwelt in the countrey of the Philistims, was foure moneths and certaine dayes.
1 Samuel 27:8	Then Dauid and his men went vp, and inuaded the Geshurites, and the Girzites, and the Amalekites: for they inhabited the lande from the beginning, from the way, as thou goest to Shur, euen vnto the lande of Egypt.
1 Samuel 27:9	And Dauid smote the lande, and left neither man nor woman aliue, and tooke sheepe, and oxen, and asses, and camels, and apparell, and returned and came to Achish.
1 Samuel 27:10	And Achish said, Where haue ye bene a rouing this day? And Dauid answered, Against the South of Iudah, and against the South of the Ierahmeelites, and against the South of ye Kenites.
1 Samuel 27:11	And Dauid saued neither man nor woman aliue, to bring them to Gath, saying, Lest they should tel on vs, and say, So did Dauid, and so will be his maner all the while that he dwelleth in the countrey of the Philistims.
1 Samuel 27:12	And Achish beleeued Dauid, saying, He hath made his people of Israel vtterly to abhorre him: therefore he shalbe my seruant for euer.
1 Samuel 28:1	Nowe at that time the Philistims assembled their bandes and armie to fight with Israel: therfore Achish said to Dauid, Be sure, thou shalt go out with me to the battel, thou, and thy men.
1 Samuel 28:2	And Dauid said to Achish, Surely thou shalt knowe, what thy seruant can doe. And Achish sayde to Dauid, Surely I will make thee keeper of mine head for euer.
1 Samuel 28:3	(Samuel was then dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah his owne citie: and Saul had put away the sorcerers, and the soothsayers out of the land)
1 Samuel 28:4	Then the Philistims assembled themselues, and came, and pitched in Shunem: and Saul assembled all Israel, and they pitched in Gilboa.
1 Samuel 28:5	And when Saul saw the hoste of the Philistims, he was afraid, and his heart was sore astonied.
1 Samuel 28:6	Therefore Saul asked counsel of the Lord, and the Lord answered him not, neither by dreames, nor by Vrim, nor yet by Prophets.
1 Samuel 28:7	Then saide Saul vnto his seruants, Seeke me a woman that hath a familiar spirite, that I may goe to her, and aske of her. And his seruants said to him, Beholde, there is a woman at En-dor that hath a familiar spirit.
1 Samuel 28:8	Then Saul changed him selfe, and put on other raiment, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night: and he saide, I pray thee, coniecture vnto me by the familiar spirite, and bring me him vp whome I shall name vnto thee.
1 Samuel 28:9	And the woman saide vnto him, Beholde, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath destroyed the sorcerers, and the southsayers out of the land: wherefore then seekest thou to take me in a snare to cause me to die?
1 Samuel 28:10	And Saul sware to her by the Lord, saying, As the Lord liueth, no harme shall come to thee for this thing.
1 Samuel 28:11	Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring vp vnto thee? And he answered, Bring me vp Samuel.
1 Samuel 28:12	And when the woman sawe Samuel, she cryed with a loude voyce, and the woman spake to Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceiued me? for thou art Saul.
1 Samuel 28:13	And the King said vnto her, Be not afraid: for what sawest thou? And the woman said vnto Saul, I saw gods ascending vp out of the earth.
1 Samuel 28:14	Then he said vnto her, What facion is hee of? And she answered, An olde man commeth vp lapped in a mantel: and Saul knewe that it was Samuel, and he enclined his face to the grounde, and bowed him selfe.
1 Samuel 28:15	And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me vp? Then Saul answered, I am in great distresse: for the Philistims make warre against me, and God is departed from me, and answereth me no more, neither by Prophetes, neither by dreames: therefore I haue called thee, that thou mayest tell me, what I shall doe.
1 Samuel 28:16	Then said Samuel, Wherefore then doest thou aske of me, seeing the Lord is gone from thee, and is thine enemie?
1 Samuel 28:17	Euen the Lord hath done to him, as hee spake by mine hande: for the Lord will rent the kingdome out of thine hande, and giue it thy neighbour Dauid.
1 Samuel 28:18	Because thou obeyedst not the voyce of the Lord, nor executedst his fierce wrath vpon the Amalekites, therefore hath the Lord done this vnto thee this day.
1 Samuel 28:19	Moreouer the Lord wil deliuer Israel with thee into the handes of the Philistims: and to morowe shalt thou and thy sonnes be with me, and the Lord shall giue the hoste of Israel into the handes of the Philistims.
1 Samuel 28:20	Then Saul fell streight way all along on the earth, and was sore afraide because of the wordes of Samuel, so that there was no strength in him: for he had eaten no bread all the day nor all the night.
1 Samuel 28:21	Then the woman came vnto Saul, and sawe that he was sore troubled, and said vnto him, See, thine handmaide hath obeyed thy voyce, and I haue put my soule in mine hande, and haue obeyed thy wordes which thou saydest vnto me.
1 Samuel 28:22	Now therefore, I pray thee, hearke thou also vnto ye voyce of thine handmaid, and let me set a morsell of bread before thee, that thou mayest eat and get thee strength, and go on thy iourney.
1 Samuel 28:23	But he refused, and said, I will not eate: but his seruants and the woman together compelled him, and he obeyed their voyce: so he arose from the earth, and sate on the bed.
1 Samuel 28:24	Nowe the woman had a fat calfe in the house, and she hasted, and killed it, and tooke floure and kneaded it, and baked of it vnleauened bread.
1 Samuel 28:25	Then she brought them before Saul, and before his seruants: and when they had eaten, they stoode, and went away the same night.
1 Samuel 29:1	So the Philistims were gathered together with all their armies in Aphek: and the Israelites pitched by the fountaine, which is in Izreel.
1 Samuel 29:2	And the princes of the Philistims went foorth by hundreths and thousandes, but Dauid and his men came behinde with Achish.
1 Samuel 29:3	Then saide the princes of the Philistims, What doe these Ebrewes here? And Achish said vnto the princes of the Philistims, Is not this Dauid the seruant of Saul the King of Israel, who hath bene with me these dayes, or these yeeres, and I haue found nothing in him, since he dwelt with me vnto this day?
1 Samuel 29:4	But the princes of the Philistims were wroth with him, and the princes of the Philistims said vnto him, Sende this fellow backe, that he may goe againe to his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not goe downe with vs to battell, least that in the battell he be an aduersarie to vs: for wherewith should he obteine the fauour of his master? shoulde it not be with the heades of these men?
1 Samuel 29:5	Is not this Dauid, of whome they sang in daunces, saying, Saul slewe his thousande, and Dauid his ten thousande?
1 Samuel 29:6	Then Achish called Dauid, and said vnto him, As the Lord liueth, thou hast bene vpright and good in my sight, when thou wentest out and in with mee in the hoste, neither haue I founde euill with thee, since thou camest to me vnto this day, but the princes doe not fauour thee.
1 Samuel 29:7	Wherefore nowe returne, and go in peace, that thou displease not the princes of the Philistims.
1 Samuel 29:8	And Dauid said vnto Achish, But what haue I done? and what hast thou founde in thy seruant as long as I haue bene with thee vnto this day, that I may not goe and fight against the enemies of my lorde the King?
1 Samuel 29:9	Achish then answered, and said to Dauid, I knowe thou pleasest mee, as an Angell of God: but the princes of the Philistims haue saide, Let him not goe vp with vs to battell.
1 Samuel 29:10	Wherefore now rise vp earely in the morning with thy masters seruants that are come with thee: and when ye be vp earely, assoone as ye haue light, depart.
1 Samuel 29:11	So Dauid and his men rose vp earely to depart in the morning, and to returne into the lande of the Philistims: and the Philistims went vp to Izreel.
1 Samuel 30:1	Bvt when Dauid and his men were come to Ziklag the thirde day, the Amalekites had inuaded vpon the South, euen vnto Ziklag, and had smitten Ziklag, and burnt it with fire,
1 Samuel 30:2	And had taken the women that were therein, prisoners, both small and great, and slewe not a man, but caryed them away, and went their wayes.
1 Samuel 30:3	So Dauid and his men came to the city, and beholde, it was burnt with fire, and their wiues, and their sonnes, and their daughters were taken prisoners.
1 Samuel 30:4	Then Dauid and the people that was with him, lift vp their voyces and wept, vntill they could weepe no more.
1 Samuel 30:5	Dauids two wiues were taken prisoners also, Ahinoam the Izreelite, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
1 Samuel 30:6	And Dauid was in great sorowe: for the people entended to stone him, because the heartes of all the people were vexed euery man for his sonnes and for his daughters: but Dauid comforted him selfe in the Lord his God.
1 Samuel 30:7	And Dauid saide to Abiathar the Priest Ahimelechs sonne, I pray thee, bring me the Ephod. And Abiathar brought the Ephod to Dauid.
1 Samuel 30:8	Then Dauid asked counsell at the Lord, saying, Shall I follow after this companie? shall I ouertake them? And he answered him, Followe: for thou shalt surely ouertake them, and recouer all.
1 Samuel 30:9	So Dauid and the sixe hundreth men that were with him, went, and came to the riuer Besor, where a part of them abode:
1 Samuel 30:10	But Dauid and foure hundreth men followed (for two hundreth abode behinde, being too wearie to goe ouer the riuer Besor)
1 Samuel 30:11	And they found an Egyptian in the fielde, and brought him to Dauid, and gaue him bread and he did eat, and they gaue him water to drinke.
1 Samuel 30:12	Also they gaue him a fewe figges, and two clusters of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirite came againe to him: for he had eaten no bread, nor drunke any water in three dayes, and three nightes.
1 Samuel 30:13	And Dauid saide vnto him, To whome belongest thou? and whence art thou? And he saide, I am a yong man of Egypt, and seruant to an Amalekite: and my master left me three dayes agoe, because I fell sicke.
1 Samuel 30:14	We roued vpon the South of Chereth, and vpon the coast belonging to Iudah, and vpon the South of Caleb, and we burnt Ziklag with fire.
1 Samuel 30:15	And Dauid saide vnto him, Canst thou bring me to this companie? And he said, Sweare vnto me by God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliuer me into the handes of my master, and I will bring thee to this companie.
1 Samuel 30:16	And when he had brought him thither, beholde, they lay scattered abroade vpon all the earth, eating and drinking, and dauncing, because of all the great pray that they had taken out of the lande of the Philistims, and out of the land of Iudah.
1 Samuel 30:17	And Dauid smote them from the twilight, euen vnto the euening of the next morowe, so that there escaped not a man of them, saue foure hundreth yong men, which rode vpon camels, and fled.
1 Samuel 30:18	And Dauid recouered all that the Amalekites had taken: also Dauid rescued his two wiues.
1 Samuel 30:19	And they lacked nothing, small or great, sonne or daughter, or of the spoyle of all that they had taken away: Dauid recouered them all.
1 Samuel 30:20	Dauid also tooke all the sheepe, and the oxen, and they draue them before his cattell, and said, This is Dauids pray.
1 Samuel 30:21	And Dauid came to the two hundreth men that were too wearie for to follow Dauid: whome they had made also to abide at the riuer Besor: and they came to meete Dauid, and to meete the people that were with him: so when Dauid came neere to the people, hee saluted them.
1 Samuel 30:22	Then answered all the euill and wicked of the men that went with Dauid, and saide, Because they went not with vs, therefore will wee giue them none of the pray that wee haue recouered, saue to euery man his wife and his children: therefore let them carie them away and depart.
1 Samuel 30:23	Then saide Dauid, Yee shall not doe so, my brethren, with that which the Lord hath giuen vs, who hath preserued vs, and deliuered the companie that came against vs, into our handes.
1 Samuel 30:24	For who will obey you in this matter? but as his part is that goeth downe to the battel, so shall his part be, that tarieth by the stuffe: they shall part alike.
1 Samuel 30:25	So from that day forward hee made it a statute and a lawe in Israel, vntill this day.
1 Samuel 30:26	When Dauid therefore came to Ziklag, he sent of the pray vnto the Elders of Iudah and to his friends, saying, See there is a blessing for you of the spoyle of the enemies of the Lord.
1 Samuel 30:27	Hee sent to them of Beth-el, and to them of South Ramoth, and to them of Iattir,
1 Samuel 30:28	And to them of Aroer, and to them of Siphmoth, and to them of Eshtemoa,
1 Samuel 30:29	And to them of Rachal, and to them of the cities of the Ierahmeelites, and to them of the cities of the Kenites,
1 Samuel 30:30	And to them of Hormah, and to them of Chor-ashan, and to them of Athach,
1 Samuel 30:31	And to them of Hebron, and to all the places where Dauid and his men had hanted.
1 Samuel 31:1	Now the Philistims fought against Israel, and the me of Israel fled away from ye Philistims, and they fell downe wounded in mount Gilboa.
1 Samuel 31:2	And the Philistims preassed sore vpon Saul and his sonnes, and slewe Ionathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua Sauls sonnes.
1 Samuel 31:3	And when the battel went sore against Saul, the archers and bowmen hit him, and hee was sore wounded of the archers.
1 Samuel 31:4	Then saide Saul vnto his armour bearer, Drawe out thy sworde, and thrust mee through therewith, lest the vncircumcised come and thrust me through and mocke me: but his armour bearer would not, for hee was sore afraid. Therefore Saul tooke a sworde and fell vpon it.
1 Samuel 31:5	And when his armour bearer sawe that Saul was dead, he fell likewise vpon his sword, and dyed with him.
1 Samuel 31:6	So Saul dyed, and his three sonnes, and his armour bearer, and all his men that same day together.
1 Samuel 31:7	And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they of the other side Iorden saw that the men of Israel were put to flight, and that Saul and his sonnes were dead, then they left the cities, and ran away: and the Philistims came and dwelt in them.
1 Samuel 31:8	And on the morowe when the Philistims were come to spoyle them that were slaine, they founde Saul and his three sonnes lying in mount Gilboa,
1 Samuel 31:9	And they cut off his head, and stripped him out of his armour, and sent into the land of ye Philistims on euery side, that they should publish it in the temple of their idoles, and among the people.
1 Samuel 31:10	And they layed vp his armour in the house of Ashtaroth, but they hanged vp his body on the wall of Beth-shan.
1 Samuel 31:11	When the inhabitants of Iabesh Gilead heard, what the Philistims had done to Saul,
1 Samuel 31:12	Then they arose (as many as were strong men) and went all night, and tooke the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sonnes, from the wall of Beth-shan, and came to Iabesh, and burnt them there,
1 Samuel 31:13	And tooke their bones and buried them vnder a tree at Iabesh, and fasted seuen dayes.

===== BOOK: 1 Thessalonians =====
1 Thessalonians 1:1	Pavl, and Siluanus, and Timotheus, vnto the Church of the Thessalonians, which is in God the Father, and in the Lord Iesus Christ: Grace be with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
1 Thessalonians 1:2	We giue God thankes alwayes for you all, making mention of you in our prayers
1 Thessalonians 1:3	Without ceasing, remembring your effectuall faith, and diligent loue, and the patience of your hope in our Lord Iesus Christ, in the sight of God euen our Father,
1 Thessalonians 1:4	Knowing, beloued brethren, that ye are elect of God.
1 Thessalonians 1:5	For our Gospell was not vnto you in worde only, but also in power, and in the holy Ghost, and in much assurance, as ye know after what maner we were among you for your sakes.
1 Thessalonians 1:6	And ye became followers of vs, and of the Lord, and receiued the worde in much affliction, with ioy of the holy Ghost,
1 Thessalonians 1:7	So that ye were as ensamples to all that beleeue in Macedonia and in Achaia.
1 Thessalonians 1:8	For from you sounded out the worde of the Lord, not in Macedonia and in Achaia only: but your faith also which is toward God, spred abroad in all quarters, that we neede not to speake any thing.
1 Thessalonians 1:9	For they themselues shew of vs what maner of entring in we had vnto you, and how ye turned to God from idoles, to serue the liuing and true God,
1 Thessalonians 1:10	And to looke for his sonne from heauen, whome he raised from the dead, euen Iesus which deliuereth vs from that wrath to come.
1 Thessalonians 2:1	For ye your selues knowe, brethren, that our entrance in vnto you was not in vaine,
1 Thessalonians 2:2	But euen after that we had suffered before, and were shamefully entreated at Philippi, (as ye knowe) we were bolde in our God, to speake vnto you the Gospell of God with much striuing.
1 Thessalonians 2:3	For our exhortation was not by deceite, nor by vncleannes, nor by guile.
1 Thessalonians 2:4	But as we were allowed of God, that the Gospel should be committed vnto vs, so we speake, not as they that please men, but God, which approoueth our hearts.
1 Thessalonians 2:5	Neither yet did we euer vse flattering wordes, as ye knowe, nor coloured couetousnes, God is recorde.
1 Thessalonians 2:6	Neither sought we prayse of men, neither of you, nor of others, when we might haue bene chargeable, as the Apostles of Christ.
1 Thessalonians 2:7	But we were gentle among you, euen as a nource cherisheth her children.
1 Thessalonians 2:8	Thus being affectioned toward you, our good will was to haue dealt vnto you, not the Gospel of God onely, but also our owne soules, because ye were deare vnto vs.
1 Thessalonians 2:9	For ye remember, brethren, our labour and trauaile: for we laboured day and night, because we would not be chargeable vnto any of you, and preached vnto you the Gospel of God.
1 Thessalonians 2:10	Ye are witnesses, and God also, how holily, and iustly, and vnblameably we behaued our selues among you that beleeue.
1 Thessalonians 2:11	As ye knowe how that we exhorted you, and comforted, and besought euery one of you (as a father his children)
1 Thessalonians 2:12	That ye would walke worthy of God, who hath called you vnto his kingdome and glorie.
1 Thessalonians 2:13	For this cause also thanke we God without ceasing, that when ye receiued the worde of God, which ye heard of vs, ye receiued it not as the worde of men, but as it is in deede the worde of God, which also worketh in you that beleeue.
1 Thessalonians 2:14	For brethren, ye are become folowers of the Churches of God, which in Iudea are in Christ Iesus, because ye haue also suffred the same things of your owne countrey men, euen as they haue of the Iewes,
1 Thessalonians 2:15	Who both killed the Lord Iesus and their owne Prophets, and haue persecuted vs away, and God they please not, and are contrary to all men,
1 Thessalonians 2:16	And forbid vs to preach vnto the Gentiles, that they might be saued, to fulfill their sinnes alwayes: for the wrath of God is come on them, to the vtmost.
1 Thessalonians 2:17	For asmuch, brethren, as we were kept from you for a season, concerning sight, but not in the heart, we enforced the more to see your face with great desire.
1 Thessalonians 2:18	Therefore we would haue come vnto you (I Paul, at least once or twise) but Satan hindered vs.
1 Thessalonians 2:19	For what is our hope or ioye, or crowne of reioycing? are not euen you it in the presence of our Lord Iesus Christ at his comming?
1 Thessalonians 2:20	Yea, ye are our glory and ioy.
1 Thessalonians 3:1	Wherefore since we could no longer forbare, wee thought it good to remaine at Athens alone,
1 Thessalonians 3:2	And haue sent Timotheus our brother and minister of God, and our labour felow in the Gospel of Christ, to stablish you, and to comfort you touching your faith,
1 Thessalonians 3:3	That no man should be moued with these afflictions: for ye your selues knowe, that we are appointed thereunto.
1 Thessalonians 3:4	For verily when we were with you, we told you before that we should suffer tribulations, euen as it came to passe, and ye knowe it.
1 Thessalonians 3:5	Euen for this cause, when I could no longer forbeare, I sent him that I might knowe of your faith, lest the tempter had tempted you in any sort, and that our labour had bene in vaine.
1 Thessalonians 3:6	But now lately when Timotheus came from you vnto vs, and brought vs good tidings of your faith and loue, and that ye haue good remembrance of vs alwayes, desiring to see vs, as we also do you,
1 Thessalonians 3:7	Therefore, brethren, we had consolation in you, in all our affliction and necessitie through your faith.
1 Thessalonians 3:8	For nowe are wee aliue, if ye stand fast in the Lord.
1 Thessalonians 3:9	For what thankes can wee recompense to God againe for you, for all the ioy wherewith we reioyce for your sakes before our God,
1 Thessalonians 3:10	Night and day, praying exceedingly that wee might see your face, and might accomplish that which is lacking in your faith?
1 Thessalonians 3:11	Nowe God himselfe, euen our Father, and our Lord Iesus Christ, guide our iourney vnto you,
1 Thessalonians 3:12	And the Lord increase you, and make you abound in loue one toward another, and towarde all men, euen as we doe toward you:
1 Thessalonians 3:13	To make your hearts stable and vnblameable in holines before God euen our Father, at the comming of our Lord Iesus Christ with all his Saints.
1 Thessalonians 4:1	And furthermore we beseeche you, brethren, and exhort you in the Lord Iesus, that ye increase more and more, as ye haue receiued of vs, how ye ought to walke, and to please God.
1 Thessalonians 4:2	For ye knowe what commandements we gaue you by the Lord Iesus.
1 Thessalonians 4:3	For this is the will of God euen your sanctification, and that ye should abstaine from fornication,
1 Thessalonians 4:4	That euery one of you should know, how to possesse his vessell in holines and honour,
1 Thessalonians 4:5	And not in the lust of concupiscence, euen as the Gentiles which know not God:
1 Thessalonians 4:6	That no man oppresse or defraude his brother in any matter: for the Lord is auenger of all such thinges, as we also haue tolde you before time, and testified.
1 Thessalonians 4:7	For God hath not called vs vnto vncleannesse, but vnto holinesse.
1 Thessalonians 4:8	Hee therefore that despiseth these thinges, despiseth not man, but God who hath euen giuen you his holy Spirit.
1 Thessalonians 4:9	But as touching brotherly loue, ye neede not that I write vnto you: for ye are taught of God to loue one another.
1 Thessalonians 4:10	Yea, and that thing verily yee doe vnto all the brethren, which are throughout all Macedonia: but we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and more,
1 Thessalonians 4:11	And that ye studie to be quiet, and to meddle with your owne busines, and to worke with your owne handes, as we commanded you,
1 Thessalonians 4:12	That yee may behaue your selues honestly towarde them that are without, and that nothing be lacking vnto you.
1 Thessalonians 4:13	I would not, brethren, haue you ignorant concerning them which are a sleepe, that ye sorow not euen as other which haue no hope.
1 Thessalonians 4:14	For if we beleeue that Iesus is dead, and is risen, euen so them which sleepe in Iesus, will God bring with him.
1 Thessalonians 4:15	For this say we vnto you by the worde of the Lord, that we which liue, and are remayning in the comming of the Lord, shall not preuent them which sleepe.
1 Thessalonians 4:16	For the Lord himselfe shall descende from heauen with a shoute, and with the voyce of the Archangel, and with the trumpet of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first:
1 Thessalonians 4:17	Then shall we which liue and remaine, be caught vp with them also in the clouds, to meete the Lord in the ayre: and so shall we euer be with the Lord.
1 Thessalonians 4:18	Wherefore, comfort your selues one another with these wordes.
1 Thessalonians 5:1	Bvt of the times and seasons, brethren, yee haue no neede that I write vnto you.
1 Thessalonians 5:2	For ye your selues knowe perfectly, that the day of the Lord shall come, euen as a thiefe in the night.
1 Thessalonians 5:3	For when they shall say, Peace, and safetie, then shall come vpon them sudden destruction, as the trauaile vpon a woman with childe, and they shall not escape,
1 Thessalonians 5:4	But ye, brethren, are not in darkenes, that that day shall come on you, as it were a thiefe.
1 Thessalonians 5:5	Yee are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we are not of the night, neither of darkenesse.
1 Thessalonians 5:6	Therefore let vs not sleepe as do other, but let vs watch and be sober.
1 Thessalonians 5:7	For they that sleepe, sleepe in the night, and they that be drunken, are drunken in the night.
1 Thessalonians 5:8	But let vs which are of the day, be sober, putting on the brest plate of faith and loue, and of the hope of saluation for an helmet.
1 Thessalonians 5:9	For God hath not appointed vs vnto wrath, but to obtaine saluation by the meanes of our Lord Iesus Christ,
1 Thessalonians 5:10	Which died for vs, that whether we wake or sleepe, we should liue together with him.
1 Thessalonians 5:11	Wherefore exhort one another, and edifie one another, euen as ye doe.
1 Thessalonians 5:12	Nowe we beseeche you, brethren, that ye acknowledge them, which labour among you, and are ouer you in the Lord, and admonish you,
1 Thessalonians 5:13	That yee haue them in singular loue for their workes sake. Bee at peace among your selues.
1 Thessalonians 5:14	We desire you, brethren, admonish them that are out of order: comfort ye feeble minded: beare with the weake: be pacient toward all men.
1 Thessalonians 5:15	See that none recompense euil for euil vnto any man: but euer follow that which is good, both toward your selues, and toward all men.
1 Thessalonians 5:16	Reioyce euermore.
1 Thessalonians 5:17	Pray continually.
1 Thessalonians 5:18	In all thinges giue thankes: for this is the will of God in Christ Iesus toward you.
1 Thessalonians 5:19	Quench not the Spirit.
1 Thessalonians 5:20	Despise not prophecying.
1 Thessalonians 5:21	Try all things, and keepe that which is good.
1 Thessalonians 5:22	Absteine from all appearance of euill.
1 Thessalonians 5:23	Nowe the very God of peace sanctifie you throughout: and I pray God that your whole spirite and soule and body, may be kept blamelesse vnto the comming of our Lord Iesus Christ.
1 Thessalonians 5:24	Faithfull is hee which calleth you, which will also doe it.
1 Thessalonians 5:25	Brethren, pray for vs.
1 Thessalonians 5:26	Greete all the brethren with an holy kisse.
1 Thessalonians 5:27	I charge you in the Lord, that this Epistle be read vnto all the brethren the Saintes.
1 Thessalonians 5:28	The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with you, Amen. ‘The first Epistle vnto the Thessalonians written from Athens.’

===== BOOK: 1 Timothy =====
1 Timothy 1:1	Pavl an Apostle of Iesvs Christ, by the commandement of God our Sauiour, and of our Lord Iesus Christ our hope,
1 Timothy 1:2	Vnto Timotheus my naturall sonne in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God our Father, and from Christ Iesus our Lord.
1 Timothy 1:3	As I besought thee to abide still in Ephesus, when I departed into Macedonia, so doe, that thou mayest warne some, that they teach none other doctrine,
1 Timothy 1:4	Neither that they giue heede to fables and genealogies which are endles, which breede questions rather then godly edifying which is by fayth.
1 Timothy 1:5	For the end of the commandement is loue out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of faith vnfained.
1 Timothy 1:6	From the which things some haue erred, and haue turned vnto vaine iangling.
1 Timothy 1:7	They would be doctours of the Law, and yet vnderstande not what they speake, neither whereof they affirme.
1 Timothy 1:8	And we knowe, that the Law is good, if a man vse it lawfully,
1 Timothy 1:9	Knowing this, that the Lawe is not giuen vnto a righteous man, but vnto the lawles and disobedient, to the vngodly, and to sinners, to the vnholy, and to the prophane, to murtherers of fathers and mothers, to manslayers,
1 Timothy 1:10	To whoremongers, to buggerers, to menstealers, to lyers, to the periured, and if there be any other thing, that is contrary to wholesome doctrine,
1 Timothy 1:11	Which is according to the glorious Gospel of the blessed God, which is committed vnto me.
1 Timothy 1:12	Therefore I thanke him, which hath made me strong, that is, Christ Iesus our Lord: for he counted me faithfull, and put me in his seruice:
1 Timothy 1:13	When before I was a blasphemer, and a persecuter, and an oppresser: but I was receiued to mercie: for I did it ignorantly through vnbeliefe.
1 Timothy 1:14	But the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and loue, which is in Christ Iesus.
1 Timothy 1:15	This is a true saying, and by all meanes worthy to be receiued, that Christ Iesus came into the worlde to saue sinners, of whom I am chiefe.
1 Timothy 1:16	Notwithstanding, for this cause was I receiued to mercie, that Iesus Christ should first shewe on me all long suffering vnto the ensample of them, which shall in time to come beleeue in him vnto eternall life.
1 Timothy 1:17	Nowe vnto the King euerlasting, immortall, inuisible, vnto God onely wise, be honour and glorie, for euer, and euer, Amen.
1 Timothy 1:18	This commandement commit I vnto thee, sonne Timotheus, according to the prophecies, which went before vpon thee, that thou by them shouldest fight a good fight,
1 Timothy 1:19	Hauing faith and a good conscience, which some haue put away, and as concerning faith, haue made shipwracke.
1 Timothy 1:20	Of whom is Hymeneus, and Alexander, whom I haue deliuered vnto Satan, that they might learne not to blaspheme.
1 Timothy 2:1	I Exhort therefore, that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giuing of thanks be made for all men,
1 Timothy 2:2	For Kings, and for all that are in authoritie, that we may leade a quiet and a peaceable life, in all godlinesse and honestie.
1 Timothy 2:3	For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Sauiour,
1 Timothy 2:4	Who will that all men shalbe saued, and come vnto the acknowledging of the trueth.
1 Timothy 2:5	For there is one God, and one Mediatour betweene God and man, which is the man Christ Iesus,
1 Timothy 2:6	Who gaue himselfe a ransome for all men, to be that testimonie in due time,
1 Timothy 2:7	Whereunto I am ordeined a preacher and an Apostle (I speake the trueth in Christ, and lie not) euen a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and veritie.
1 Timothy 2:8	I will therefore that the men pray, euery where lifting vp pure hands without wrath, or douting.
1 Timothy 2:9	Likewise also the women, that they aray themselues in comely apparell, with shamefastnes and modestie, not with broyded heare, or gold, or pearles, or costly apparell,
1 Timothy 2:10	But (as becommeth women that professe the feare of God) with good workes.
1 Timothy 2:11	Let the woman learne in silence with all subiection.
1 Timothy 2:12	I permit not a woman to teache, neither to vsurpe authoritie ouer the man, but to be in silence.
1 Timothy 2:13	For Adam was first formed, then Eue.
1 Timothy 2:14	And Adam was not deceiued, but the woman was deceiued, and was in the transgression.
1 Timothy 2:15	Notwithstanding, through bearing of children she shalbe saued if they continue in faith, and loue, and holines with modestie.
1 Timothy 3:1	This is a true saying, If any man desire the office of a Bishop, he desireth a worthie worke.
1 Timothy 3:2	A Bishop therefore must be vnreproueable, the husband of one wife, watching, temperate, modest, harberous, apt to teache,
1 Timothy 3:3	Not giuen to wine, no striker, not giuen to filthy lucre, but gentle, no fighter, not couetous,
1 Timothy 3:4	One that can rule his owne house honestly, hauing children vnder obedience with all honestie.
1 Timothy 3:5	For if any cannot rule his owne house, how shall he care for the Church of God?
1 Timothy 3:6	He may not be a yong scholer, lest he being puffed vp fall into the condemnation of the deuill.
1 Timothy 3:7	He must also be well reported of, euen of them which are without, lest he fall into rebuke, and the snare of the deuill.
1 Timothy 3:8	Likewise must Deacons be graue, not double tongued, not giuen vnto much wine, neither to filthy lucre,
1 Timothy 3:9	Hauing the mysterie of the faith in pure conscience.
1 Timothy 3:10	And let them first be proued: then let them minister, if they be found blameles.
1 Timothy 3:11	Likewise their wiues must be honest, not euill speakers, but sober, and faithfull in all things.
1 Timothy 3:12	Let the Deacons be the husbands of one wife, and such as can rule their children well, and their owne housholdes.
1 Timothy 3:13	For they that haue ministred well, get them selues a good degree, and great libertie in the faith, which is in Christ Iesus.
1 Timothy 3:14	These things write I vnto thee, trusting to come very shortly vnto thee.
1 Timothy 3:15	But if I tary long, that thou maist yet know, how thou oughtest to behaue thy self in ye house of God, which is the Church of the liuing God, the pillar and ground of trueth.
1 Timothy 3:16	And without controuersie, great is the mysterie of godlinesse, which is, God is manifested in the flesh, iustified in the Spirit, seene of Angels, preached vnto the Gentiles, beleeued on in the world, and receiued vp in glorie.
1 Timothy 4:1	Now the Spirit speaketh euidently, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, and shall giue heede vnto spirits of errour, and doctrines of deuils,
1 Timothy 4:2	Which speake lies through hypocrisie, and haue their cosciences burned with an hote yron,
1 Timothy 4:3	Forbidding to marrie, and commanding to abstaine from meates which God hath created to be receiued with giuing thankes of them which beleeue and knowe the trueth.
1 Timothy 4:4	For euery creature of God is good, and nothing ought to be refused, if it be receiued with thankesgiuing.
1 Timothy 4:5	For it is sanctified by the worde of God, and prayer.
1 Timothy 4:6	If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Iesus Christ, which hast bene nourished vp in the wordes of faith, and of good doctrine, which thou hast continually followed.
1 Timothy 4:7	But cast away prophane, and olde wiues fables, and exercise thy selfe vnto godlinesse.
1 Timothy 4:8	For bodily exercise profiteth litle: but godlinesse is profitable vnto all things, which hath the promise of the life present, and of that that is to come.
1 Timothy 4:9	This is a true saying, and by all meanes worthie to be receiued.
1 Timothy 4:10	For therefore we labour and are rebuked, because we trust in the liuing God, which is the Sauiour of all men, specially of those that beleeue.
1 Timothy 4:11	These things warne and teache.
1 Timothy 4:12	Let no man despise thy youth, but be vnto them that beleeue, an ensample, in worde, in conuersation, in loue, in spirit, in faith, and in purenesse.
1 Timothy 4:13	Till I come, giue attendance to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine.
1 Timothy 4:14	Despise not the gift that is in thee, which was giuen thee by prophecie with the laying on of the hands of the companie of the Eldership.
1 Timothy 4:15	These things exercise, and giue thy selfe vnto them, that it may be seene howe thou profitest among all men.
1 Timothy 4:16	Take heede vnto thy selfe, and vnto learning: continue therein: for in doing this thou shalt both saue thy selfe, and them that heare thee.
1 Timothy 5:1	Rebuke not an Elder, but exhort him as a father, and the yonger men as brethren,
1 Timothy 5:2	The elder women as mothers, the yonger as sisters, with all purenesse.
1 Timothy 5:3	Honour widowes, which are widowes in deede.
1 Timothy 5:4	But if any widowe haue children or nephewes, let them learne first to shewe godlinesse towarde their owne house, and to recompense their kinred: for that is an honest thing and acceptable before God.
1 Timothy 5:5	And shee that is a widowe in deede and left alone, trusteth in God, and continueth in supplications and praiers night and day.
1 Timothy 5:6	But shee that liueth in pleasure, is dead, while shee liueth.
1 Timothy 5:7	These things therefore warne them of, that they may be blamelesse.
1 Timothy 5:8	If there bee any that prouideth not for his owne, and namely for them of his housholde, hee denieth the faith, and is worse then an infidell.
1 Timothy 5:9	Let not a widow be taken into the number vnder three score yeere olde, that hath beene the wife of one husband,
1 Timothy 5:10	And well reported of for good woorkes: if shee haue nourished her children, if shee haue lodged the strangers, if shee haue washed the Saintes feete, if shee haue ministred vnto them which were in aduersitie, if shee were continually giuen vnto euery good woorke.
1 Timothy 5:11	But refuse the yonger widowes: for when they haue begun to waxe wanton against Christ, they will marrie,
1 Timothy 5:12	Hauing damnation, because they haue broken the first faith.
1 Timothy 5:13	And likewise also being idle they learne to goe about from house to house: yea, they are not onely ydle, but also pratlers and busibodies, speaking things which are not comely.
1 Timothy 5:14	I will therefore that the yonger women marie, and beare children, and gouerne the house, and giue none occasion to the aduersary to speake euill.
1 Timothy 5:15	For certaine are alreadie turned backe after Satan.
1 Timothy 5:16	If any faithfull man, or faithfull woman haue widowes, let them minister vnto them, and let not the Church bee charged, that there may bee sufficient for them that are widowes in deede.
1 Timothy 5:17	The Elders that rule well, let them be had in double honour, specially they which labour in the worde and doctrine,
1 Timothy 5:18	For the Scripture sayeth, Thou shalt not mousell the mouth of the oxe that treadeth out the corne: and, The labourer is worthie of his wages.
1 Timothy 5:19	Against an Elder receiue none accusation, but vnder two or three witnesses.
1 Timothy 5:20	Them that sinne, rebuke openly, that the rest also may feare.
1 Timothy 5:21	I charge thee before God and the Lord Iesus Christ, and the elect Angels, that thou obserue these thinges without preferring one to an other, and doe nothing partially.
1 Timothy 5:22	Lay handes suddenly on no man, neither be partaker of other mens sinnes: keepe thy selfe pure.
1 Timothy 5:23	Drinke no longer water, but vse a litle wine for thy stomakes sake, and thine often infirmities.
1 Timothy 5:24	Some mens sinnes are open before hand, and goe before vnto iudgement: but some mens folowe after.
1 Timothy 5:25	Likewise also the good woorkes are manifest before hande, and they that are otherwise, cannot be hid.
1 Timothy 6:1	Let as many seruaunts as are vnder the yoke, count their masters worthie of all honour, that the Name of God, and his doctrine be not euill spoken of.
1 Timothy 6:2	And they which haue beleeuing masters, let them not despise them, because they are brethren, but rather doe seruice, because they are faithfull, and beloued, and partakers of the benefite. These things teach and exhort.
1 Timothy 6:3	If any man teach otherwise, and consenteth not to the wholesome wordes of our Lord Iesus Christ, and to the doctrine, which is according to godlinesse,
1 Timothy 6:4	He is puft vp and knoweth nothing, but doteth about questions and strife of words, whereof commeth enuie, strife, railings, euill surmisings,
1 Timothy 6:5	Frowarde disputations of men of corrupt mindes and destitute of ye trueth, which thinke that gaine is godlines: from such separate thy selfe.
1 Timothy 6:6	But godlinesse is great gaine, if a man be content with that he hath.
1 Timothy 6:7	For we brought nothing into the world, and it is certaine, that we can carie nothing out.
1 Timothy 6:8	Therefore when wee haue foode and raiment, let vs therewith be content.
1 Timothy 6:9	For they that will be rich, fall into tentation and snares, and into many foolish and noysome lustes, which drowne men in perdition and destruction.
1 Timothy 6:10	For the desire of money is the roote of all euill, which while some lusted after, they erred from the faith, and pearced themselues through with many sorowes.
1 Timothy 6:11	But thou, O man of God, flee these things, and follow after righteousnesse, godlines, faith, loue, patience, and meekenes.
1 Timothy 6:12	Fight the good fight of faith: lay holde of eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses.
1 Timothy 6:13	I charge thee in the sight of God, who quickeneth all thinges, and before Iesus Christ, which vnder Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession,
1 Timothy 6:14	That thou keepe this commandement without spot, and vnrebukeable, vntill the appearing of our Lord Iesus Christ,
1 Timothy 6:15	Which in due time hee shall shewe, that is blessed and Prince onely, the King of Kings and Lord of Lordes,
1 Timothy 6:16	Who onely hath immortalitie, and dwelleth in the light that none can attaine vnto, whom neuer man sawe, neither can see, vnto whome bee honour and power euerlasting, Amen.
1 Timothy 6:17	Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not high minded, and that they trust not in vncertaine riches, but in the liuing God, (which giueth vs aboundantly, all things to enioy)
1 Timothy 6:18	That they doe good, and be riche in good woorkes, and readie to distribute, and comunicate,
1 Timothy 6:19	Laying vp in store for themselues a good foundation against the time to come, that they may obteine eternall life.
1 Timothy 6:20	O Timotheus, keepe that which is committed vnto thee, and auoide prophane and vaine babblings, and oppositios of science falsely so called,
1 Timothy 6:21	Which while some professe, they haue erred concerning the faith. Grace be with thee, Amen. ‘The first Epistle to Timotheus, written from Laodicea, which is the chiefest citie of Phrygia Pacaciana.’

===== BOOK: 2 Chronicles =====
2 Chronicles 1:1	Then Salomon the sonne of Dauid was confirmed in his kingdome: and the Lord his God was with him, and magnified him highly.
2 Chronicles 1:2	And Salomon spake vnto all Israel, to the captaines of thousandes, and of hundreths, and to the iudges, and to all the gouernours in all Israel, euen the chiefe fathers.
2 Chronicles 1:3	So Salomon and all the Congregation with him went to the hie place that was at Gibeon: for there was the Tabernacle of the Congregation of God which Moses the seruant of the Lord had made in the wildernesse.
2 Chronicles 1:4	But the Arke of God had Dauid brought vp from Kiriath-iearim, when Dauid had made preparation for it: for he had pitched a tent for it in Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 1:5	Moreouer the brasen altar that Bezaleel the sonne of Vri, the sonne of Hur had made, did hee set before the Tabernacle of the Lord: and Salomon and the Congregation sought it.
2 Chronicles 1:6	And Salomon offred there before the Lord vpon the brasen altar that was in the Tabernacle of the Congregation: euen a thousand burnt offrings offred he vpon it.
2 Chronicles 1:7	The same night did God appeare vnto Salomon, and sayde vnto him, Aske what I shall giue thee.
2 Chronicles 1:8	And Salomon sayde vnto God, Thou hast shewed great mercy vnto Dauid my father and hast made me to reigne in his stead.
2 Chronicles 1:9	Nowe therefore, O Lord God, let thy promise vnto Dauid my father be true: for thou hast made mee King ouer a great people, like to the dust of the earth.
2 Chronicles 1:10	Giue me now wisdome and knowledge, that I may go out and go in before this people: for who can iudge this thy great people?
2 Chronicles 1:11	And God sayde to Salomon, Because this was in thine heart, and thou hast not asked riches, treasures nor honour, nor the liues of thine enemies, neither yet hast asked long life, but hast asked for thee wisdome and knowledge that thou mightest iudge my people, ouer whome I haue made thee King,
2 Chronicles 1:12	Wisdome and knowledge is granted vnto thee, and I will giue thee riches and treasures and honour, so that there hath not bene the like among the Kings which were before thee, neither after thee shall there be the like.
2 Chronicles 1:13	Then Salomon came from the hie place, that was at Gibeon, to Ierusalem from before the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and reigned ouer Israel.
2 Chronicles 1:14	And Salomon gathered the charets and horesemen: and he had a thousand and foure hundreth charets, and twelue thousande horsemen, whome he placed in the charet cities, and with the King at Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 1:15	And the King gaue siluer and gold at Ierusalem as stones, and gaue cedar trees as the wilde figge trees, that are abundantly in the playne.
2 Chronicles 1:16	Also Salomon had horses brought out of Egypt and fine linen: the Kings marchants receiued the fine linen for a price.
2 Chronicles 1:17	They came vp also and brought out of Egypt some charet, worth sixe hundreth shekels of siluer, that is an horse for an hundreth and fiftie: and thus they brought horses to all the Kings of the Hittites, and to the Kings of Aram by their meanes.
2 Chronicles 2:1	Then Salomon determined to builde an house for the Name of the Lord, and an house for his kingdome.
2 Chronicles 2:2	And Salomon tolde out seuentie thousand that bare burdens, and fourescore thousande men to hewe stones in the mountaine, and three thousand and sixe hundreth to ouersee them.
2 Chronicles 2:3	And Salomon sent to Huram the king of Tyrus, saying, As thou hast done to Dauid my father, and didst sende him cedar trees to buylde him an house to dwell in, so do to me.
2 Chronicles 2:4	Behold, I buylde an house vnto the Name of the Lord my God, to sanctifie it vnto him, and to burne sweete incense before him, and for the continuall shewbread, and for the burnt offrings of the morning and euening, on the Sabbath dayes, and in the new moneths, and in the solemne feastes of the Lord our God: this is a perpetuall thing for Israel.
2 Chronicles 2:5	And the house which I buylde, is great: for great is our God aboue all gods.
2 Chronicles 2:6	Who is he then that can be able to buylde him an house, when the heauen, and the heauen of heauens can not conteine him? who am I then that I should buylde him an house? but I do it to burne incense before him.
2 Chronicles 2:7	Sende me nowe therefore a cunning man that can worke in golde, in siluer, and in brasse, and in yron, and in purple, and crimosin and blue silke, and that can graue in grauen worke with the cunning men that are with me in Iudah and in Ierusalem, whom Dauid my father hath prepared.
2 Chronicles 2:8	Sende mee also cedar trees, firre trees and Algummim trees from Lebanon: for I knowe that thy seruants can skill to hewe timber in Lebanon: and beholde, my seruantes shalbe with thine,
2 Chronicles 2:9	That they may prepare me timber in abundance: for the house which I doe buylde, is great and wonderfull.
2 Chronicles 2:10	And behold, I will giue to thy seruants the cutters and the hewers of timber twentie thousand measures of beaten wheate, and twentie thousand measures of barley, and twentie thousand baths of wine, and twentie thousand baths of oyle.
2 Chronicles 2:11	Then Huram King of Tyrus answered in writing which he sent to Salomon, Because the Lord hath loued his people, he hath made thee King ouer them.
2 Chronicles 2:12	Huram sayd moreouer, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which made the heauen and the earth, and that hath giuen vnto Dauid the King a wise sonne, that hath discretion, prudence and vnderstanding to buylde an house for the Lord, and a palace for his kingdome.
2 Chronicles 2:13	Now therefore I haue sent a wise man, and of vnderstanding of my father Hurams,
2 Chronicles 2:14	The sonne of a woman of the daughters of Dan: and his father was a man of Tyrus, and he can skill to worke in golde, in siluer, in brasse, in yron, in stone, and in timber, in purple, in blue silke, and in fine linen, and in crimosin, and can graue in all grauen workes, and broyder in all broydered worke that shalbe giuen him, with thy cunning men, and with the cunning men of my lord Dauid thy father.
2 Chronicles 2:15	Now therefore the wheate and the barley, the oyle and the wine, which my lorde hath spoken of, let him send vnto his seruants.
2 Chronicles 2:16	And we wil cut wood in Lebanon as much as thou shalt neede, and will bring it to thee in raftes by the sea to Iapho, so thou mayest cary them to Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 2:17	And Salomon nombred al the strangers that were in the land of Israel, after the nombring that his father Dauid had nombred them: and they were found an hundreth and three and fiftie thousand, and sixe hundreth.
2 Chronicles 2:18	And he set seuentie thousande of them to the burden, and fourescore thousande to hewe stones in the mountaine, and three thousande and sixe hundreth ouerseers to cause the people to worke.
2 Chronicles 3:1	So Salomon began to buyld the house of the Lord in Ierusalem, in mount Moriah which had bene declared vnto Dauid his father, in the place that Dauid prepared in the thresshing floore of Ornan the Iebusite.
2 Chronicles 3:2	And he beganne to buylde in the seconde moneth and the second day, in the fourth yeere of his reigne.
2 Chronicles 3:3	And these are the measures, whereon Salomon grounded to buylde the house of God: the length of cubites after the first measure was threescore cubites, and the breadth twenty cubites:
2 Chronicles 3:4	And the porch, that was before the length in the front of the breadth was twentie cubits, and the height was an hundreth and twentie, and he ouerlayd it within with pure golde.
2 Chronicles 3:5	And the greater house he sieled with firre tree which he ouerlayd with good golde, and graued thereon palme trees and chaines.
2 Chronicles 3:6	And hee ouerlayde the house with precious stone for beautie: and the golde was gold of Paruaim.
2 Chronicles 3:7	The house, I say, the beames, postes, and walles thereof and the doores thereof ouerlayde he with gold, and graued Cherubims vpon the walles.
2 Chronicles 3:8	He made also the house of the most holy place: the length thereof was in the front of the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and the breadth thereof twentie cubites: and he ouerlayde it with the best golde, of sixe hundreth talents.
2 Chronicles 3:9	And the weight of the nayles was fiftie shekels of golde, and hee ouerlayde the chambers with golde.
2 Chronicles 3:10	And in the house of the most holy place he made two Cherubims wrought like children, and ouerlayd them with golde.
2 Chronicles 3:11	And the winges of the Cherubims were twentie cubites long: the one wing was fiue cubites, reaching to the wall of the house, and the other wing fiue cubites, reaching to the wing of the other Cherub.
2 Chronicles 3:12	Likewise the wing of ye other Cherub was fiue cubites, reaching to the wall of the house, and the other wing fiue cubites ioyning to the wing of the other Cherub.
2 Chronicles 3:13	The wings of these Cherubims were spread abroade twentie cubites: they stoode on their feete, and their faces were toward the house.
2 Chronicles 3:14	He made also the vaile of blew silke and purple, and crimosin, and fine linen, and wrought Cherubims thereon.
2 Chronicles 3:15	And he made before the house two pillars of fiue and thirtie cubites hie: and the chapiter that was vpon the top of eche of them, was fiue cubites.
2 Chronicles 3:16	He made also chaines for the oracle, and put them on the heads of the pillars, and made an hundreth pomegranates, and put them among the chaines.
2 Chronicles 3:17	And he set vp the pillars before the Temple, one on the right hande and the other on the left, and called that on the right hand Iachin, and that on the left hand Boaz.
2 Chronicles 4:1	And hee made an altar of brasse twentie cubites long, and twentie cubites broade, and ten cubites hie.
2 Chronicles 4:2	And he made a molten Sea of ten cubites from brim to brim, rounde in compasse, and fiue cubites hie: and a line of thirtie cubites did compasse it about.
2 Chronicles 4:3	And vnder it was ye facion of oxen, which did compasse it rounde about, tenne in a cubite compassing the Sea about: two rowes of oxen were cast when it was molten.
2 Chronicles 4:4	It stoode vpon twelue oxen: three looked toward the North, and three looked towarde the West, and three looked towarde the South, and three looked towarde the East, and the Sea stoode about vpon them, and all their hinder parts were inwarde.
2 Chronicles 4:5	And the thickenesse thereof was an hande breadth, and the brim thereof was like the worke of the brim of a cuppe with floures of lilies: it conteined three thousand baths.
2 Chronicles 4:6	He made also ten caldrons, and put fiue on the right hand, and fiue on the left, to wash in them, and to clense in them that which apperteined to the burnt offrings: but the Sea was for the Priests to wash in.
2 Chronicles 4:7	And he made ten candlestickes of golde (according to their forme) and put them in the Temple, fiue on the right hand, and fiue on the left.
2 Chronicles 4:8	And he made ten tables, and put them in the Temple, fiue on the right hand, and fiue on the left: and he made an hundreth basens of golde.
2 Chronicles 4:9	And he made the court of the Priests, and the great court and doores for the court, and ouerlayd the doores thereof with brasse.
2 Chronicles 4:10	And he set the Sea on the right side Eastward toward the South.
2 Chronicles 4:11	And Huram made pottes and besoms and basens, and Huram finished the worke that hee shoulde make for King Salomon for the house of God,
2 Chronicles 4:12	To wit, two pillars, and the bowles and the chapiters on the top of ye two pillars, and two grates to couer the two bowles of the chapiters which were vpon the toppe of the pillars:
2 Chronicles 4:13	And foure hundreth pomegranates for the two grates, two rowes of pomegranates for euery grate to couer the two bowles of the chapiters, that were vpon the pillars.
2 Chronicles 4:14	He made also bases, and made caldrons vpon the bases:
2 Chronicles 4:15	And a Sea, and twelue bulles vnder it:
2 Chronicles 4:16	Pottes also and besomes, and fleshhookes, and all these vessels made Huram his father, to King Salomon for the house of the Lord, of shining brasse.
2 Chronicles 4:17	In the playne of Iorden did the King cast them in clay betweene Succoth and Zeredathah.
2 Chronicles 4:18	And Salomon made al these vessels in great abundance: for the weight of brasse could not be rekoned.
2 Chronicles 4:19	And Salomon made al the vessels that were for the house of God: the golden altar also and the tables, whereon the shewbread stoode.
2 Chronicles 4:20	Moreouer the candlestickes, with their lampes to burne them after the maner, before the oracle, of pure golde.
2 Chronicles 4:21	And the floures and the lampes, and the snuffers of gold, which was fine golde.
2 Chronicles 4:22	And the hookes, and the basens, and the spoones, and the ashpans of pure golde: the entrie also of the house and doores thereof within, euen of the most holy place: and the doores of the house, to wit, of the Temple were of golde.
2 Chronicles 5:1	So was all the worke finished that Salomon made for the house of the Lord, and Salomon brought in the things that Dauid his father had dedicated, with the siluer and the golde, and all the vessels, and put them among the treasures of the house of God.
2 Chronicles 5:2	Then Salomon assembled the Elders of Israel, and all the heads of the tribes, the chiefe fathers of the children of Israel vnto Ierusalem to bring vp the Arke of the couenant of the Lord from the citie of Dauid, which is Zion.
2 Chronicles 5:3	And all ye men of Israel assembled vnto the King at the feast: it was in ye seuenth moneth.
2 Chronicles 5:4	And all the Elders of Israel came, and the Leuites tooke vp the Arke.
2 Chronicles 5:5	And they caried vp the Arke and the Tabernacle of the Congregation: and all the holy vessels that were in the Tabernacle, those did the Priests and Leuites bring vp.
2 Chronicles 5:6	And King Salomon and all the Congregation of Israel that were assembled vnto him, were before ye Arke, offring sheepe and bullocks, which could not be told nor nobred for multitude.
2 Chronicles 5:7	So the Priests brought the Arke of the couenant of the Lord vnto his place, into the Oracle of the house, into the most Holy place, euen vnder the wings of the Cherubims.
2 Chronicles 5:8	For ye Cherubims stretched out their wings ouer the place of the Arke, and the Cherubims couered the Arke and the barres thereof aboue.
2 Chronicles 5:9	And they drewe out the barres, that the endes of the barres might bee seene out of the Arke before the Oracle, but they were not seene without: and there they are vnto this day.
2 Chronicles 5:10	Nothing was in the Arke, saue the two Tables, which Moses gaue at Horeb, where the Lord made a couenant with the children of Israel, when they came out of Egypt.
2 Chronicles 5:11	And when the Priestes were come out of the Sanctuarie (for all the Priests that were present, were sanctified and did not waite by course.
2 Chronicles 5:12	And the Leuites the singers of all sortes, as of Asaph, of Heman, of Ieduthun, and of their sonnes and of their brethren, being clad in fine linen, stoode with cymbales, and with violes and harpes at the East ende of the altar, and with them an hundreth and twentie Priestes blowing with trumpets:
2 Chronicles 5:13	And they were as one, blowing trumpets, and singing, and made one sounde to bee heard in praysing and thanking the Lord, and when they lift vp their voyce with trumpets and with cymbales, and with instruments of musicke, and when they praysed the Lord, singing, For he is good, because his mercie lasteth for euer) then the house, euen the house of the Lord was filled with a cloude,
2 Chronicles 5:14	So that the Priests could not stand to minister, because of the cloude: for the glory of the Lord had filled the house of God.
2 Chronicles 6:1	Then Salomon sayd, The Lord hath sayde that he would dwell in the darke cloude:
2 Chronicles 6:2	And I haue built thee an house to dwell in, an habitation for thee to dwell in for euer.
2 Chronicles 6:3	And the King turned his face, and blessed all the Congregation of Israel (for all the Congregation of Israel stoode there)
2 Chronicles 6:4	And he said, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, who spake with his mouth vnto Dauid my father, and hath with his hand fulfilled it, saying,
2 Chronicles 6:5	Since the day that I brought my people out of the land of Egypt, I chose no citie of al the tribes of Israel to buylde an house, that my Name might be there, neyther chose I any man to be a ruler ouer my people Israel:
2 Chronicles 6:6	But I haue chosen Ierusalem, that my Name might be there, and haue chosen Dauid to be ouer my people Israel.
2 Chronicles 6:7	And it was in the heart of Dauid my father to builde an house vnto the Name of the Lord God of Israel,
2 Chronicles 6:8	But the Lord sayde to Dauid my father, Whereas it was in thine heart to buylde an house vnto my Name, thou diddest well, that thou wast so minded.
2 Chronicles 6:9	Notwithstanding thou shalt not build the house, but thy sonne which shall come out of thy loynes, he shall buylde an house vnto my Name.
2 Chronicles 6:10	And the Lord hath performed his worde that he spake: and I am risen vp in the roume of Dauid my father, and am set on the throne of Israel as the Lord promised, and haue built an house to the Name of the Lord God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 6:11	And I haue set the Arke there, wherein is the couenant of the Lord, that he made with the children of Israel.
2 Chronicles 6:12	And the King stoode before the altar of the Lord, in the presence of all the Congregation of Israel, and stretched out his hands,
2 Chronicles 6:13	(For Salomon had made a brasen skaffold and set it in the middes of the court, of fiue cubites long, and fiue cubites broade, and three cubites of height, and vpon it he stoode, and kneeled downe vpon his knees before all the Congregation of Israel, and stretched out his hands toward heauen)
2 Chronicles 6:14	And sayd, O Lord God of Israel, there is no God like thee in heauen nor in earth, which keepest couenant, and mercie vnto thy seruants, that walke before thee with all their heart.
2 Chronicles 6:15	Thou that hast kept with thy seruant Dauid my father, that thou hast promised him: for thou spakest with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it with thine hand, as appeareth this day.
2 Chronicles 6:16	Therefore now Lord God of Israel, keepe with thy seruant Dauid my father, that thou hast promised him, saying, Thou shalt not want a man in my sight, that shall sit vpon the throne of Israel: so that thy sonnes take heede to their wayes, to walke in my Lawe, as thou hast walked before me.
2 Chronicles 6:17	And now, O Lord God of Israel, let thy worde be verified, which thou spakest vnto thy seruant Dauid.
2 Chronicles 6:18	(Is it true in deede that God will dwell with man on earth? beholde, the heauens, and the heauens of heauens are not able to conteine thee: how much more vnable is this house, which I haue buylt?)
2 Chronicles 6:19	But haue thou respect to the prayer of thy seruant, and to his supplication, O Lord my God, to heare the crye and prayer which thy seruant prayeth before thee,
2 Chronicles 6:20	That thine eyes may be open toward this house day and night, euen toward the place, whereof thou hast sayde, that thou wouldest put thy Name there, that thou mayest hearken vnto the prayer, which thy seruant prayeth in this place.
2 Chronicles 6:21	Heare thou therefore the supplication of thy seruant, and of thy people Israel, which they pray in this place: and heare thou in the place of thine habitation, euen in heauen, and when thou hearest, be mercifull.
2 Chronicles 6:22	When a man shall sinne against his neighbour, and he laye vpon him an othe to cause him to sweare, and the swearer shall come before thine altar in this house,
2 Chronicles 6:23	Then heare thou in heauen, and doe, and iudge thy seruants, in recompensing the wicked to bring his way vpon his head, and in iustifying the righteous, to giue him according to his righteousnes.
2 Chronicles 6:24	And when thy people Israel shalbe ouerthrowen before the enemie, because they haue sinned against thee, and turne againe, and confesse thy Name, and pray, and make supplication before thee in this house,
2 Chronicles 6:25	Then heare thou in heauen, and be mercifull vnto the sinne of thy people Israel, and bring them againe vnto the land which thou gauest to them and to their fathers.
2 Chronicles 6:26	When heauen shall be shut vp, and there shalbe no rayne, because they haue sinned against thee, and shall pray in this place, and confesse thy Name, and turne from their sinne, when thou doest afflict them,
2 Chronicles 6:27	Then heare thou in heauen, and pardon the sinne of thy seruants, and of thy people Israel (when thou hast taught them the good way wherein they may walke) and giue rayne vpon thy lande, which thou hast giuen vnto thy people for an inheritance.
2 Chronicles 6:28	When there shalbe famine in the land, when there shalbe pestilence, blasting, or mildew, when there shall be grashopper, or caterpiller, when their enemie shall besiege them in the cities of their land, or any plague or any sickenesse,
2 Chronicles 6:29	Then what prayer and supplication so euer shalbe made of any man, or of all thy people Israel, whe euery one shall knowe his owne plague, and his owne disease, and shall stretch forth his hands toward this house,
2 Chronicles 6:30	Heare thou then in heauen, thy dwelling place, and be merciful, and giue euery man according vnto all his wayes, as thou doest knowe his heart (for thou onely knowest the hearts of the children of men)
2 Chronicles 6:31	That they may feare thee, and walke in thy wayes as long as they liue in the land which thou gauest vnto our fathers.
2 Chronicles 6:32	Moreouer, as touching ye stranger which is not of thy people Israel, who shall come out of a farre countrey for thy great Names sake, and thy mighty hande, and thy stretched out arme: when they shall come and pray in this house,
2 Chronicles 6:33	Heare thou in heauen thy dwelling place, and doe according to all that the stranger calleth for vnto thee, that all the people of the earth may knowe thy Name, and feare thee like thy people Israel, and that they may knowe, that thy Name is called vpon in this house which I haue built.
2 Chronicles 6:34	When thy people shall goe out to battell against their enemies, by the way that thou shalt send them, and they pray to thee, in the way towarde this citie, which thou hast chosen, euen toward the house which I haue built to thy Name,
2 Chronicles 6:35	Then heare thou in heauen their prayer and their supplication, and iudge their cause.
2 Chronicles 6:36	If they sinne against thee (for there is no man that sinneth not) and thou be angry with them and deliuer them vnto the enemies, and they take them and cary them away captiue vnto a land farre or neere,
2 Chronicles 6:37	If they turne againe to their heart in the lande whither they be caryed in captiues, and turne and pray vnto thee in the lande of their captiuitie, saying, We haue sinned, we haue transgressed and haue done wickedly,
2 Chronicles 6:38	If they turne againe to thee with all their heart, and with all their soule in the land of their captiuitie, whither they haue caryed them captiues, and pray toward their land, which thou gauest vnto their fathers, and toward the citie which thou hast chosen, and toward the house which I haue built for thy Name,
2 Chronicles 6:39	Then heare thou in heauen, in the place of thine habitation their prayer and their supplication, and iudge their cause, and be mercifull vnto thy people, which haue sinned against thee.
2 Chronicles 6:40	Nowe my God, I beseech thee, let thine eyes be open, and thine eares attent vnto the prayer that is made in this place.
2 Chronicles 6:41	Nowe therefore arise, O Lord God, to come into thy rest, thou, and the Arke of thy strength: O Lord God, let thy Priestes be clothed with saluation, and let thy Saints reioyce in goodnesse.
2 Chronicles 6:42	O Lord God, refuse not the face of thine anoynted: remember the mercies promised to Dauid thy seruant.
2 Chronicles 7:1	And when Salomon had made an ende of praying, fire came downe from heauen, and consumed the burnt offring and the sacrifices: and the glory of the Lord filled the house,
2 Chronicles 7:2	So that the Priestes could not euter into the house of the Lord, because the glory of the Lord had filled the Lordes house.
2 Chronicles 7:3	And when all the children of Israel saw the fire, and the glory of the Lord come downe vpon the house, they bowed themselues with their faces to the earth vpon the pauement, and worshipped and praysed the Lord, saying, For he is good, because his mercy lasteth for euer.
2 Chronicles 7:4	Then the King and all the people offred sacrifices before the Lord.
2 Chronicles 7:5	And King Salomon offered a sacrifice of two and twentie thousand bullockes, and an hundreth and twentie thousand sheepe. so the King and all the people dedicated the house of God.
2 Chronicles 7:6	And the Priests waited on their offices, and the Leuites with the instruments of musicke of the Lord, which King Dauid had made to praise the Lord, Because his mercy lasteth for euer: whe Dauid praysed God by them, the Priestes also blewe trumpets ouer against them: and all they of Israel stoode by.
2 Chronicles 7:7	Moreouer Salomon halowed the middle of the court that was before the house of the Lord: for there hee had prepared burnt offerings, and the fatte of the peace offerings, because the brasen altar which Salomon had made, was not able to receiue the burnt offering, and the meate offring, and the fat.
2 Chronicles 7:8	And Salomon made a feast at that time of seuen dayes, and all Israel with him, a very great Congregation, from the entring in of Hamath, vnto the riuer of Egypt.
2 Chronicles 7:9	And in the eight day they made a solemne assemblie: for they had made the dedication of the altar seuen daies, and the feast seuen dayes.
2 Chronicles 7:10	And the three and twentieth day of the seuenth moneth, he sent the people away into their tentes, ioyous and with glad heart, because of the goodnesse that the Lord had done for Dauid and for Salomon, and for Israel his people.
2 Chronicles 7:11	So Salomon finished the house of the Lord, and the Kings house, and all that came into Salomons heart to make in the house of the Lord: and he prospered in his house.
2 Chronicles 7:12	And the Lord appeared to Salomon by night and said to him, I haue heard thy prayer, and haue chosen this place for my selfe to be an house of sacrifice.
2 Chronicles 7:13	If I shut the heauen that there be no raine, or if I commaund the grashopper to deuoure the lande, or if I sende pestilence among my people,
2 Chronicles 7:14	If my people, among whome my Name is called vpon, doe humble them selues, and praye, and seeke my presence, and turne from their wicked wayes, then will I heare in heauen, and be mercifull to their sinne, and wil heale their land:
2 Chronicles 7:15	Then mine eies shalbe open and mine eares attent vnto the prayer made in this place.
2 Chronicles 7:16	For I haue nowe chosen and sanctified this house, that my Name may be there for euer: and mine eyes and mine heart shalbe there perpetually.
2 Chronicles 7:17	And if thou wilt walke before me, as Dauid thy father walked, to doe according vnto all that I haue commanded thee, and shalt obserue my statutes and my iudgements,
2 Chronicles 7:18	Then will I stablish the throne of thy kingdome, according as I made the couenant with Dauid thy father, saying, Thou shalt not want a man to be ruler in Israel.
2 Chronicles 7:19	But if ye turne away, and forsake my statutes and my commandements which I haue set before you, and shall goe and serue other gods, and worshippe them,
2 Chronicles 7:20	Then will I plucke them vp out of my lande, which I haue giuen them, and this house which I haue sanctified for my Name, will I cast out of my sight, and will make it to be a prouerbe and a common talke among all people.
2 Chronicles 7:21	And this house which is most hie, shall be an astonishment to euery one that passeth by it, so that he shall say, Why hath the Lord done thus to this lande, and to this house?
2 Chronicles 7:22	And they shall answere, Because they forsooke the Lord God of their fathers, which brought them out of the lande of Egypt, and haue taken holde on other gods, and haue worshipped them, and serued them, therefore hath he brought all this euill vpon them.
2 Chronicles 8:1	And after twentie yeere when Salomon had built the house of the Lord, and his owne house,
2 Chronicles 8:2	Then Salomon built the cities that Huram gaue to Salomon, and caused the children of Israel to dwell there.
2 Chronicles 8:3	And Salomon went to Hamath Zobah, and ouercame it.
2 Chronicles 8:4	And he built Tadmor in the wildernesse, and repayred all the cities of store which hee built in Hamath.
2 Chronicles 8:5	And he built Beth-horon the vpper, and Beth-horon the nether, cities defensed with walles, gates and barres:
2 Chronicles 8:6	Also Baalath, and al the cities of store that Salomon had, and all the charet cities, and the cities of the horsemen, and euery pleasant place that Salomon had a minde to builde in Ierusalem, and in Lebanon, and throughout all the lande of his dominion.
2 Chronicles 8:7	And all the people that were left to ye Hittites, and ye Amorites, and Perizzites, and the Hiuuites, and the Iebusites, which were not of Israel,
2 Chronicles 8:8	But of their children which were left after them in the lande, whome the children of Israel had not consumed, euen them did Salomon make tributaries vntill this day.
2 Chronicles 8:9	But of the children of Israel did Salomon make no seruantes for his worke: for they were men of warre, and his chiefe princes, and the captaines of his charets and of his horsemen.
2 Chronicles 8:10	So these were the chiefe of the officers which Salomon had, euen two hundreth and fiftie that bare rule ouer the people.
2 Chronicles 8:11	Then Salomon brought vp the daughter of Pharaoh out of the citie of Dauid, into the house that he had built for her: for he saide, My wife shall not dwel in the house of Dauid King of Israel: for it is holy, because that the Arke of the Lord came vnto it.
2 Chronicles 8:12	Then Salomon offered burnt offrings vnto the Lord, on the altar of the Lord, which he had built before the porche,
2 Chronicles 8:13	To offer according to the commandement of Moses euery day, in the Sabbaths, and in the newe moones, and in the solemne feastes, three times in the yeere, that is, in the feast of the Vnleauened bread, and in the feast of the Weekes, and in the feast of the Tabernacles.
2 Chronicles 8:14	And he set the courses of the Priestes to their offices, according to the order of Dauid his father, and the Leuites in their watches, for to praise and minister before the Priestes euery day, and the porters by their courses, at euery gate: for so was the commandement of Dauid the man of God.
2 Chronicles 8:15	And they declined not from the commandement of the King, concerning the Priests and the Leuites, touching al things, and touching the treasures.
2 Chronicles 8:16	Nowe Salomon had made prouision for all the worke, from the day of the foundation of the house of the Lord, vntill it was finished: so the house of the Lord was perfite.
2 Chronicles 8:17	Then went Salomon to Ezion-geber, and to Eloth by the sea side in the lande of Edom.
2 Chronicles 8:18	And Huram sent him by the handes of his seruants, shippes, and seruants that had knowledge of the sea: and they went with the seruants of Salomon to Ophir, and brought thence foure hundreth and fiftie talents of golde, and brought them to King Salomon.
2 Chronicles 9:1	And when the Queene of Sheba heard of the fame of Salomon, she came to proue Salomon with hard questions at Ierusalem, with a very great traine, and camels that bare sweete odours and much golde, and precious stones: and when she came to Salomon, she communed with him of all that was in her heart.
2 Chronicles 9:2	And Salomon declared her all her questions, and there was nothing hid from Salomon, which he declared not vnto her.
2 Chronicles 9:3	Then the Queene of Sheba sawe the wisedome of Salomon, and the house that he had buylt,
2 Chronicles 9:4	And the meate of his table, and the sitting of his seruants, and the order of his wayters, and their apparel, and his butlers, and their apparel, and his burnt offrings which he offred in the house of the Lord, and she was greatly astonied.
2 Chronicles 9:5	And she saide to the King, It was a true worde which I heard in mine owne lande of thy sayings, and of thy wisedome:
2 Chronicles 9:6	Howbeit I beleeued not their report, vntil I came, and mine eyes had seene it: and beholde, the one halfe of thy great wisedom was not told me: for thou exceedest the fame that I heard.
2 Chronicles 9:7	Happie are thy men, and happie are these thy seruants, which stande before thee alway, and heare thy wisedome.
2 Chronicles 9:8	Blessed be the Lord thy God, which loued thee, to set thee on his throne as King, in the steade of the Lord thy God: because thy God loueth Israel, to establish it for euer, therefore hath he made thee King ouer them, to execute iudgement and iustice.
2 Chronicles 9:9	Then she gaue the King sixe score talents of golde, and of sweete odours exceeding much and precious stones: neither was there such sweete odours since, as the Queene of Sheba gaue vnto King Salomon.
2 Chronicles 9:10	And the seruants also of Huram, and the seruants of Salomon which brought golde from Ophir, brought Algummim wood and precious stones.
2 Chronicles 9:11	And the King made of the Algummim wood staires in the house of the Lord, and in the Kings house, and harpes and violes for singers: and there was no such seene before in the lande of Iudah.
2 Chronicles 9:12	And King Salomon gaue to the Queene of Sheba euery pleasant thing that she asked, besides for that which she had brought vnto the King: so she returned and went to her owne countrey, both she, and her seruants.
2 Chronicles 9:13	Also the weight of golde that came to Salomon in one yeere, was sixe hundreth three score and sixe talents of golde,
2 Chronicles 9:14	Besides that which chapmen and marchants brought: and all the Kings of Arabia, and the princes of the countrey brought golde and siluer to Salomon.
2 Chronicles 9:15	And King Salomon made two hundreth targets of beaten golde, and sixe hundreth shekels of beaten golde went to one target,
2 Chronicles 9:16	And three hundreth shieldes of beaten golde: three hundreth shekels of golde went to one shielde, and the King put them in the house of the wood of Lebanon.
2 Chronicles 9:17	And the King made a great throne of yuorie and ouerlaid it with pure golde.
2 Chronicles 9:18	And the throne had sixe steppes, with a footestoole of gold fastened to the throne, and stayes on either side on the place of the seate, and two lyons standing by the stayes.
2 Chronicles 9:19	And twelue lyons stoode there on the sixe steps on either side: there was not the like made in any kingdome.
2 Chronicles 9:20	And all King Salomons drinking vessels were of golde, and all the vessels of the house of the wood of Lebanon were of pure gold: for siluer was nothing esteemed in ye dayes of Salomon.
2 Chronicles 9:21	For the Kings ships went to Tarshish with the seruants of Huram, euery three yeere once came the ships of Tarshish, and brought golde, and siluer, yuorie, and apes, and peacockes.
2 Chronicles 9:22	So King Salomon excelled all the Kings of the earth in riches and wisedome.
2 Chronicles 9:23	And all the Kings of the earth sought the presence of Salomon, to heare his wisedome that God had put in his heart.
2 Chronicles 9:24	And they brought euery man his present, vessels of siluer, and vessels of golde, and raiment, armour, and sweet odours, horses, and mules, from yeere to yeere.
2 Chronicles 9:25	And Salomon had foure thousand stalles of horses, and charets, and twelue thousand horsmen, whom he bestowed in the charet cities, and with the King at Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 9:26	And he reigned ouer all the Kings from the Riuer euen vnto the land of the Philistims, and to the border of Egypt.
2 Chronicles 9:27	And the King gaue siluer in Ierusalem, as stones, and gaue cedar trees as the wilde fig trees, that are aboundant in the plaine.
2 Chronicles 9:28	And they brought vnto Salomon horses out of Egypt, and out of all landes.
2 Chronicles 9:29	Concerning the rest of the actes of Salomon first and last, are they not written in the booke of Nathan the Prophet, and in the prophecie of Ahiiah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Ieedo the Seer against Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat?
2 Chronicles 9:30	And Salomon reigned in Ierusalem ouer all Israel fourtie yeeres.
2 Chronicles 9:31	And Salomon slept with his fathers, and they buryed him in the citie of Dauid his father: and Rehoboam his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Chronicles 10:1	Then Rehoboam went to Shechem: for to Sheche came all Israel to make him king.
2 Chronicles 10:2	And when Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat heard it, (which was in Egypt, whither he had fled from the presence of Salomon the King) he returned out of Egypt.
2 Chronicles 10:3	And they sent and called him: so came Ieroboam and all Israel, and communed with Rehoboam, saying,
2 Chronicles 10:4	Thy father made our yoke grieuous: nowe therefore make thou the grieuous seruitude of thy father, and his sore yoke, that he put vpon vs, lighter, and we will serue thee.
2 Chronicles 10:5	And he sayde to them, Depart yet three dayes, then come againe vnto me. And the people departed.
2 Chronicles 10:6	And King Rehoboam tooke counsel with the olde men that had stande before Salomon his father, while hee yet liued, saying, What counsell giue ye that I may answere this people?
2 Chronicles 10:7	And they spake vnto him, saying, If thou be kinde to this people, and please them, and speake louing words to them, they will be thy seruants for euer.
2 Chronicles 10:8	But hee left the counsel of the ancient men that they had giuen him, and tooke counsell of the yong men that were brought vp with him, and waited on him.
2 Chronicles 10:9	And he sayd vnto them, What counsel giue ye, that we may answere this people, which haue spoken to mee, saying, Make the yoke which thy father did put vpon vs, lighter?
2 Chronicles 10:10	And the yong men that were brought vp with him, spake vnto him, saying, Thus shalt thou answere the people that spake to thee, saying, Thy father made our yoke heauie, but make thou it lighter for vs: thus shalt thou say vnto them, My least part shalbe bigger then my fathers loines.
2 Chronicles 10:11	Now whereas my father did burden you with a grieuous yoke, I will yet increase your yoke: my father hath chastised you with roddes, but I will correct you with scourges.
2 Chronicles 10:12	Then Ieroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the King had appointed saying, Come againe to me the third day.
2 Chronicles 10:13	And the King answered them sharply: and King Rehoboam left the counsel of the ancient men,
2 Chronicles 10:14	And spake to them after ye counsell of the yong men, saying, My father made your yoke grieuous, but I wil incease it: my father chastised you with rods, but I will correct you with scourges.
2 Chronicles 10:15	So the king hearkened not vnto the people: for it was the ordinance of God that the Lord might performe his saying, which hee had spoken by Ahiiah the Shilonite to Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat.
2 Chronicles 10:16	So when all Isarael sawe that the King would not heare them, the people answered the King, saying, What portion haue we in Dauid? for we haue none inheritance in the sonue of Ishai. O Israel, euery man to your tents: now see to thine owne house, Dauid. So all Israel departed to their tents.
2 Chronicles 10:17	Howbeit Rehoboam reigned ouer the children of Israel, that dwelt in the cities of Iudah.
2 Chronicles 10:18	Then King Rehoboam sent Hadoram that was ouer the tribute, and the children of Israel stoned him with stones, that he died: then King Rehoboam made speede to get him vp to his charet, to flee to Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 10:19	And Israel rebelled against the house of Dauid vnto this day.
2 Chronicles 11:1	And when Rehoboam was come to Ierusalem, he gathered of the house of Iudah and Beniamin nine score thousande chosen men of warre to fight against Israel, and to bring the kingdome againe to Rehoboam.
2 Chronicles 11:2	But the worde of the Lord came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
2 Chronicles 11:3	Speake vnto Rehoboam, the sonne of Salomon King of Iudah, and to all Israel that are in Iudah, and Beniamin, saying,
2 Chronicles 11:4	Thus sayth the Lord, Ye shall not goe vp, nor fight against your brethren: returne euery man to his house: for this thing is done of me. They obeyed therfore the word of the Lord, and returned from going against Ieroboam.
2 Chronicles 11:5	And Rehoboam dwelt in Ierusalem, and buylt strong cities in Iudah.
2 Chronicles 11:6	Hee buylt also Beth-lehem, and Etam, and Tekoa,
2 Chronicles 11:7	And Beth-zur, and Shoco, and Adullam,
2 Chronicles 11:8	And Gath, and Maresha, and Ziph,
2 Chronicles 11:9	And Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah,
2 Chronicles 11:10	And Zorah, and Aialon, and Hebron, which were in Iudah and Beniamin, strong cities.
2 Chronicles 11:11	And he repaired the strong holdes and put captaines in them, and store of vitaile, and oyle and wine.
2 Chronicles 11:12	And in all cities he put shieldes and speares, and made them exceeding strong: so Iudah and Beniamin were his.
2 Chronicles 11:13	And the Priests and the Leuites that were in all Israel, resorted vnto him out of all their coastes.
2 Chronicles 11:14	For the Leuites left their suburbes and their possession, and came to Iudah and to Ierusalem: for Ieroboam and his sonnes had cast them out from ministring in the Priestes office vnto the Lord.
2 Chronicles 11:15	And he ordeyned him Priests for the hie places, and for the deuils and for the calues which he had made.
2 Chronicles 11:16	And after the Leuites there came to Ierusalem of all the tribes of Israel, such as set their heartes to seeke the Lord God of Israel, to offer vnto the Lord God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 11:17	So they strengthened the kingdome of Iudah, and made Rehoboam the sonne of Salomon mightie, three yeere long: for three yeere they walked in in the way of Dauid and Salomon.
2 Chronicles 11:18	And Rehoboam tooke him Mahalath ye daughter of Ierimoth the sonne of Dauid to wife, and Abihail the daughter of Eliab the sonne of Ishai,
2 Chronicles 11:19	Which bare him sonnes Ieush, and Shemariah, and Zaham.
2 Chronicles 11:20	And after her he tooke Maakah ye daughter of Absalom which bare him Abiiah, and Atthai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.
2 Chronicles 11:21	And Rehoboam loued Maakah ye daughter of Absalom aboue all his wiues and his concubines: for he tooke eighteene wiues, and three score concubines, and begate eyght and twentie sonnes, and three score daughters.
2 Chronicles 11:22	And Rehoboam made Abiiah the sonne of Maakah the chiefe ruler among his brethren: for he thought to make him King.
2 Chronicles 11:23	And he taught him: and dispersed all his sonnes throughout all the countreis of Iudah and Beniamin vnto euery strong citie: and hee gaue them aboundance of vitaile, and desired many wiues.
2 Chronicles 12:1	And when Rehoboam had established the kingdome and made it strong, hee forsooke the Lawe of the Lord, and all Israel with him.
2 Chronicles 12:2	Therefore in the fift yeere of King Rehoboam, Shishak the King of Egypt came vp against Ierusalem (because they had transgressed against the Lord)
2 Chronicles 12:3	With twelue hundreth charets, and three score thousande horsemen, and the people were without nomber, that came with him from Egypt, euen the Lubims, Sukkiims, and the Ethiopians.
2 Chronicles 12:4	And he tooke the strong cities which were of Iudah, and came vnto Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 12:5	Then came Shemaiah the Prophet to Rehoboam, and to the princes of Iudah, that were gathered together in Hierusalem, because of Shishak, and sayde vnto them, Thus sayth the Lord, Ye haue forsaken me, therefore haue I also left you in the handes of Shishak.
2 Chronicles 12:6	Then the princes of Israel, and the King humbled themselues, and sayde, The Lord is iust.
2 Chronicles 12:7	And when the Lord sawe that they humbled themselues, the worde of the Lord came to Shemaiah, saying, They haue humbled theselues, therefore I will not destroy them, but I will sende them deliuerance shortly, and my wrath shall not bee powred out vpon Ierusalem by the hand of Shishak.
2 Chronicles 12:8	Neuerthelesse they shalbe his sernants: so shall they knowe my seruice, and the seruice of the kingdomes of the earth.
2 Chronicles 12:9	Then Shishak King of Egypt came vp against Ierusalem, and tooke the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the Kings house he tooke euen all, and hee caried away the shields of golde, which Salomon had made.
2 Chronicles 12:10	In stead whereof King Rehoboam made shieldes of brasse, and committed them to the handes of the chiefe of the garde, that wayted at the doore of the Kings house.
2 Chronicles 12:11	And when the King entred into the house of the Lord, the garde came and bare them and brought them againe vnto the garde chamber.
2 Chronicles 12:12	And because hee humbled himselfe, the wrath of the Lord turned from him, that hee woulde not destroy all together. And also in Iudah the things prospered.
2 Chronicles 12:13	So King Rehoboam was strong in Ierusalem and reigned: for Rehoboam was one and fourtie yere olde, when he began to reigne, and reigned seuenteene yeres in Ierusalem, the citie which the Lord had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel to put his Name there. And his mothers name was Naamah an Ammonitesse.
2 Chronicles 12:14	And he did euill: for hee prepared not his heart to seeke the Lord.
2 Chronicles 12:15	The actes also of Rehoboam, first and last, are they not written in the booke of Shemaiah the Prophet, and Iddo the Seer, in rehearsing the genealogie? and there was warre alway betweene Rehoboam and Ieroboam.
2 Chronicles 12:16	And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the citie of Dauid, and Abiiah his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Chronicles 13:1	In the eyghteenth yeere of King Ieroboam began Abiiah to reigne ouer Iudah.
2 Chronicles 13:2	He reigned three yere in Ierusalem: (his mothers name also was Michaiah the daughter of Vriel of Gibea) and there was warre betweene Abiiah and Ieroboam.
2 Chronicles 13:3	And Abiiah set the battel in aray with the armie of valiant men of warre, euen foure hundreth thousand chosen men. Ieroboam also set the battell in aray against him with eight hundreth thousande chosen men which were strong and valiant.
2 Chronicles 13:4	And Abiiah stood vp vpon mount Zemeraim, which is in mount Ephraim, and sayde, O Ieroboam, and all Israel, heare you me,
2 Chronicles 13:5	Ought you not to know that the Lord God of Israel hath giuen the kingdome ouer Israel to Dauid for euer, euen to him and to his sonnes by a couenant of salt?
2 Chronicles 13:6	And Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat the seruant of Salomon the sonne of Dauid is risen vp, and hath rebelled against his lord:
2 Chronicles 13:7	And there are gathered to him vayne men and wicked, and made themselues strong against Rehoboam the sonne of Salomon: for Rehoboam was but a childe and tender hearted, and coulde not resist them.
2 Chronicles 13:8	Now therefore ye thinke that yee be able to resist against the kingdome of the Lord, which is in the handes of the sonnes of Dauid, and ye bee a great multitude, and the golden calues are with you which Ieroboam made you for gods.
2 Chronicles 13:9	Haue ye not driuen away the Priestes of the Lord the sonnes of Aaron and the Leuites, and haue made you Priests like the people of other countreis? whosoeuer commeth to consecrate with a yong bullocke and seuen rams, the same may be a Priest of them that are no gods.
2 Chronicles 13:10	But wee belong vnto the Lord our God, and haue not forsaken him, and the Priestes the sonnes of Aaron minister vnto the Lord, and the Leuites in their office.
2 Chronicles 13:11	And they burne vnto the Lord euery morning and euery euening burnt offerings and sweete incense, and the breade is set in order vpon the pure table, and the candlesticke of golde with the lampes thereof, to burne euery euening: for we keepe the watch of the Lord our God: but ye haue forsaken him.
2 Chronicles 13:12	And behold, this God is with vs, as a captaine, and his Priests with the sounding trumpets, to crie an alarme against you. O yee children of Israel, fight not against the Lord God of your fathers: for ye shall not prosper.
2 Chronicles 13:13	But Ieroboam caused an ambushment to compasse, and come behind them, when they were before Iudah, and the ambushment behinde them.
2 Chronicles 13:14	Then Iudah looked, and beholde, the battel was before and behinde them, and they cried vnto the Lord, and the Priests blewe with the trumpets,
2 Chronicles 13:15	And the men of Iudah gaue a shoute: and euen as the men of Iudah shouted, God smote Ieroboam and also Israel before Abiiah and Iudah.
2 Chronicles 13:16	And the children of Israel fledde before Iudah, and God deliuered them into their hande.
2 Chronicles 13:17	And Abiiah and his people slewe a great slaughter of them, so that there fel downe wounded of Israel fiue hundreth thousand chosen men.
2 Chronicles 13:18	So the children of Israel were brought vnder at that time: and the children of Iudah preuailed, because they stayed vpon the Lord God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 13:19	And Abiiah pursued after Ieroboam, and tooke cities from him, euen Beth-el, and the villages thereof, and Ieshanah with her villages, and Ephron with her villages.
2 Chronicles 13:20	And Ieroboam recouered no strength againe in the dayes of Abiiah, but the Lord plagued him, and he dyed.
2 Chronicles 13:21	So Abiiah waxed mightie, and marryed foureteene wiues, and begate two and twentie sonnes, and sixteene daughters.
2 Chronicles 13:22	The rest of the actes of Abiiah and his maners and his sayings are written in the storie of the Prophet Iddo.
2 Chronicles 14:1	So Abiiah slept with his fathers, and they buryed him in the citie of Dauid, and Asa his sonne reigned in his steade: in whose dayes the lande was quiet ten yeere.
2 Chronicles 14:2	And Asa did that was good and right in the eyes of the Lord his God.
2 Chronicles 14:3	For he tooke away the altars of the strange gods and the hie places, and brake downe the images, and cut downe the groues,
2 Chronicles 14:4	And commanded Iudah to seeke the Lord God of their fathers, and to doe according to the Lawe and the comandement.
2 Chronicles 14:5	And he tooke away out of all the cities of Iudah the hie places, and the images: therefore the kingdome was quiet before him.
2 Chronicles 14:6	He built also strong cities in Iudah, because the lande was in rest, and he had no warre in those yeeres: for the Lord had giuen him rest.
2 Chronicles 14:7	Therefore he saide to Iudah, Let vs builde these cities and make walles about, and towers, gates, and barres, whiles the lande is before vs: because we haue sought the Lord our God, we haue sought him, and he hath giuen vs rest on euery side: so they built and prospered.
2 Chronicles 14:8	And Asa had an armie of Iudah that bare shieldes and speares, three hundreth thousande, and of Beniamin that bare shieldes and drewe bowes, two hundreth and foure score thousande: all these were valiant men.
2 Chronicles 14:9	And there came out against them Zerah of Ethiopia with an hoste of ten hundreth thousande, and three hundreth charets, and came vnto Mareshah.
2 Chronicles 14:10	Then Asa went out before him, and they set the battell in aray in the valley of Zephathah beside Mareshah.
2 Chronicles 14:11	And Asa cryed vnto the Lord his God, and saide, Lord, it is nothing with thee to helpe with many, or with no power: helpe vs, O Lord our God: for we rest on thee, and in thy Name are we come against this multitude: O Lord, thou art our God, let not man preuaile against thee.
2 Chronicles 14:12	So the Lord smote the Ethiopians before Asa and before Iudah, and the Ethiopians fled.
2 Chronicles 14:13	And Asa and the people that was with him, pursued them vnto Gerar. And the Ethiopians hoste was ouerthrowen, so that there was no life in them: for they were destroyed before the Lord and before his hoste: and they caryed away a mightie great spoyle.
2 Chronicles 14:14	And they smote all the cities rounde about Gerar: for the feare of the Lord came vpon them, and they spoyled all the cities, for there was exceeding much spoyle in them.
2 Chronicles 14:15	Yea, and they smote the tents of cattel, and carried away plentie of sheepe and camels, and returned to Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 15:1	Then the Spirite of God came vpon Azariah the sonne of Obed.
2 Chronicles 15:2	And he went out to meete Asa, and said vnto him, O Asa, and all Iudah, and Beniamin, heare ye me. The Lord is with you, while ye be with him: and if ye seeke him, he wil be founde of you, but if ye forsake him, he will forsake you.
2 Chronicles 15:3	Nowe for a long season Israel hath bene without the true God, and without Priest to teach and without Lawe.
2 Chronicles 15:4	But whosoeuer returned in his affliction to the Lord God of Israel, and sought him, he was founde of them.
2 Chronicles 15:5	And in that time there was no peace to him, that did goe out and goe in: but great troubles were to all the inhabitants of the earth.
2 Chronicles 15:6	For nation was destroyed of nation, and citie of citie: for God troubled them with all aduersitie.
2 Chronicles 15:7	Be ye strong therefore, and let not your handes be weake: for your worke shall haue a rewarde.
2 Chronicles 15:8	And when Asa heard these wordes, and the prophesie of Obed the Prophet, he was encouraged, and tooke away the abominations out of all the lande of Iudah, and Beniamin, and out of the cities which he had taken of mount Ephraim, and he renued the altar of the Lord, that was before the porche of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 15:9	And he gathered all Iudah and Beniamin, and the strangers with them out of Ephraim, and Manasseh, and out of Simeon: for there fell many to him out of Israel, when they sawe that the Lord his God was with him.
2 Chronicles 15:10	So they assembled to Ierusalem in the third moneth, in the fifteenth yere of the reigne of Asa.
2 Chronicles 15:11	And they offred vnto the Lord the same time of the spoyle, which they had brought, euen seuen hundreth bullockes, and seuen thousande sheepe.
2 Chronicles 15:12	And they made a couenant to seeke the Lord God of their fathers, with all their heart, and with all their soule.
2 Chronicles 15:13	And whosoeuer will not seeke the Lord God of Israel, shalbe slaine, whether he were small or great, man or woman.
2 Chronicles 15:14	And they sware vnto the Lord with a loude voyce, and with shouting and with trumpets, and with cornets.
2 Chronicles 15:15	And all Iudah reioyced at the othe: for they had sworne vnto the Lord with all their heart, and sought him with a whole desire, and he was founde of them. And the Lord gaue them rest rounde about.
2 Chronicles 15:16	And King Asa deposed Maachah his mother from her regencie, because she had made an idole in a groue: and Asa brake downe her idole, and stamped it, and burnt it at the brooke Kidron.
2 Chronicles 15:17	But the hie places were not taken away out of Israel: yet the heart of Asa was perfit all his dayes.
2 Chronicles 15:18	Also he brought into the house of God the things that his father had dedicate, and that he had dedicate, siluer, and golde, and vessels.
2 Chronicles 15:19	And there was no warre vnto the fiue and thirtieth yeere of the reigne of Asa.
2 Chronicles 16:1	In the sixe and thirtieth yeere of the reigne of Asa came Baasha king of Israel vp against Iudah, and built Ramah to let none passe out or goe in to Asa king of Iudah.
2 Chronicles 16:2	Then Asa brought out siluer and gold out of the treasures of the house of the Lord, and of the Kings house, and sent to Benhadad King of Aram that dwelt at Damascus, saying,
2 Chronicles 16:3	There is a couenant betweene me and thee, and betweene my father and thy father: behold, I haue sent thee siluer and golde: come, breake thy league with Baasha King of Israel that hee may depart from me.
2 Chronicles 16:4	And Benhadad hearkened vnto King Asa, and sent the captaines of the armies which hee had, against the cities of Israel. And they smote Iion, and Dan, and Abel-maim, and all the store cities of Naphtali.
2 Chronicles 16:5	And when Baasha heard it, he left building of Ramah, and let his worke cease.
2 Chronicles 16:6	Then Asa the King tooke all Iudah, and caryed away the stones of Ramah and the tymber thereof, wherewith Baasha did builde, and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.
2 Chronicles 16:7	And at that same time Hanani the Seer came to Asa King of Iudah, and saide vnto him, Because thou hast rested vpon the king of Aram, and not rested in the Lord thy God, therefore is the hoste of the King of Aram escaped out of thine hande.
2 Chronicles 16:8	The Ethiopians and the Lubims, were they not a great hoste with charets and horsemen, exceeding many? yet because thou diddest rest vpon the Lord, he deliuered them into thine had.
2 Chronicles 16:9	For the eyes of the Lord beholde all the earth to shewe him selfe strong with them that are of perfite heart towarde him: thou hast then done foolishly in this: therefore from henceforth thou shalt haue warres.
2 Chronicles 16:10	Then Asa was wroth with the Seer, and put him into a prison: for he was displeased with him, because of this thing. And Asa oppressed certaine of the people at the same time.
2 Chronicles 16:11	And behold, the actes of Asa first and last, loe, they are written in the booke of the Kings of Iudah and Israel.
2 Chronicles 16:12	And Asa in the nine and thirtieth yeere of his reigne was diseased in his feete, and his disease was extreme: yet he sought not the Lord in his disease, but to the Phisicions.
2 Chronicles 16:13	So Asa slept with his fathers, and dyed in the one and fourtieth yeere of his reigne.
2 Chronicles 16:14	And they buryed him in one of his sepulchres, which he had made for him selfe in the citie of Dauid, and layed him in the bed, which they had filled with sweete odours and diuers kindes of spices made by the arte of the apoticarie: and they burnt odours for him with an exceeding great fire.
2 Chronicles 17:1	And Iehosphat his sonne reigned in his steade, and preuailed against Israel.
2 Chronicles 17:2	And he put garisons in all the strong cities of Iudah, and set bandes in the lande of Iudah and in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa his father had taken.
2 Chronicles 17:3	And the Lord was with Iehoshaphat, because he walked in the first wayes of his father Dauid, and sought not Baalim,
2 Chronicles 17:4	But sought the Lord God of his father, and walked in his commandements, and not after the trade of Israel.
2 Chronicles 17:5	Therefore the Lord stablished the kingdome in his hande, and all Iudah brought presents to Iehoshaphat, so that he had of riches and honour in abundance.
2 Chronicles 17:6	And he lift vp his heart vnto the wayes of the Lord, and he tooke away moreouer the hie places and the groues out of Iudah.
2 Chronicles 17:7	And in the thirde yere of his reigne he sent his princes, Ben-hail, and Obadiah, and Zechariah, and Nethaneel, and Michaiah, that they should teach in the cities of Iudah,
2 Chronicles 17:8	And with them Leuites, Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Iehonathan, and Adoniiah, and Tobiiah, and Tob-adoniiah, Leuites, and with the Elishama and Iehoram Priestes.
2 Chronicles 17:9	And they taught in Iudah, and had the booke of the Lawe of the Lord with them, and went about throughout all the cities of Iudah, and taught the people.
2 Chronicles 17:10	And the feare of the Lord fell vpon all the kingdomes of ye lands that were round about Iudah, and they fought not against Iehoshaphat.
2 Chronicles 17:11	Also some of the Philistims brought Iehoshaphat giftes and tribute siluer, and the Arabians brought him flockes, seuen thousande and seuen hundreth rammes, and seuen thousande and seuen hundreth hee goates.
2 Chronicles 17:12	So Iehoshaphat prospered and grewe vp on hie: and he built in Iudah palaces and cities of store.
2 Chronicles 17:13	And he had great workes in the cities of Iudah, and men of warre, and valiant men in Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 17:14	And these are the nombers of them after the house of their fathers, In Iudah were captaines of thousands, Adnah the captaine, and with him of valiant men three hundreth thousande.
2 Chronicles 17:15	And at his hande Iehohanan a captaine, and with him two hundreth and fourescore thousande.
2 Chronicles 17:16	And at his hande Amasiah the sonne of Zichri, which willingly offered him selfe vnto the Lord, and with him two hundreth thousand valiant men.
2 Chronicles 17:17	And of Beniamin, Eliada a valiant man, and with him armed men with bowe and shielde two hundreth thousand.
2 Chronicles 17:18	And at his hand Iehozabad, and with him an hundreth and fourescore thousand armed to the warre.
2 Chronicles 17:19	These waited on the King, besides those which the King put in the strong cities thoroughout all Iudah.
2 Chronicles 18:1	And Iehoshaphat had riches and honour in abundance, but he was ioyned in affinitie with Ahab.
2 Chronicles 18:2	And after certaine yeeres he went downe to Ahab to Samaria: and Ahab slew sheepe and oxen for him in great nomber, and for the people that he had with him, and entised him to goe vp vnto Ramoth Gilead.
2 Chronicles 18:3	And Ahab King of Israel saide vnto Iehoshaphat King of Iudah, Wilt thou goe with mee to Ramoth Gilead? And hee answered him, I am as thou art, and my people as thy people, and wee will ioyne with thee in the warre.
2 Chronicles 18:4	And Iehoshaphat sayde vnto the King of Israel, Aske counsel, I pray thee, at the worde of the Lord this day.
2 Chronicles 18:5	Therefore the King of Israel gathered of Prophets foure hundreth men, and sayde vnto them, Shall we goe to Ramoth Gilead to battel, or shall I cease? And they sayd, Go vp: for God shall deliuer it into the Kings hand.
2 Chronicles 18:6	But Iehoshaphat sayde, Is there heere neuer a Prophet more of the Lord that wee might inquire of him?
2 Chronicles 18:7	And the King of Israel sayd vnto Iehoshaphat, There is yet one man, by whome wee may aske counsell of the Lord, but I hate him: for he doeth not prophesie good vnto me, but alway euil: it is Michaiah the sonne of Imla. Then Iehoshaphat said, Let not the King say so.
2 Chronicles 18:8	And the King of Israel called an eunuche, and said, Call quickly Michaiah the sonne of Imla.
2 Chronicles 18:9	And the King of Israel, and Iehoshaphat King of Iudah sate either of them on his throne clothed in their apparel: they sate euen in the threshing floore at the entring in of the gate of Samaria: and all the Prophets prophesied before them.
2 Chronicles 18:10	And Zidkiah ye sonne of Chenaanah made him hornes of yron, and sayde, Thus sayth the Lord, With these shalt thou push the Aramites vntill thou hast consumed them.
2 Chronicles 18:11	And all the Prophets prophesied so, saying, Go vp to Ramoth Gilead, and prosper: for the Lord shall deliuer it into the hand of the King.
2 Chronicles 18:12	And the messenger that went to call Michaiah, spake to him, saying, Beholde, the wordes of the Prophets declare good to the King with one accord: let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like one of theirs, and speake thou good.
2 Chronicles 18:13	And Michaiah saide, As the Lord liueth, whatsoeuer my God saith, that will I speake.
2 Chronicles 18:14	So he came to the King, and the King said vnto him, Michaiah, shall we go to Ramoth Gilead to battel, or shall I leaue off? And he said, Goe yee vp, and prosper, and they shalbe deliuered into your hand.
2 Chronicles 18:15	And the King sayd to him, Howe oft shall I charge thee, that thou tell mee nothing but the trueth in the Name of the Lord?
2 Chronicles 18:16	Then he said, I saw al Israel scattered in the mountaines, as sheepe that haue no shepheard: and the Lord sayd, These haue no Master: let them returne euery man to his house in peace.
2 Chronicles 18:17	And the King of Israel sayde to Iehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee, that he would not prophesie good vnto me, but euill?
2 Chronicles 18:18	Againe hee saide, Therefore heare ye the worde of the Lord: I sawe the Lord sit vpon his throne, and all the hoste of heauen standing at his right hand, and at his left.
2 Chronicles 18:19	And the Lord sayd, Who shall perswade Ahab King of Israel, that he may go vp, and fall at Ramoth Gilead? And one spake and said thus, and another said that.
2 Chronicles 18:20	Then there came forth a spirit and stoode before the Lord, and said, I will perswade him. And the Lord said vnto him, Wherein?
2 Chronicles 18:21	And he saide, I will goe out, and bee a false spirit in the mouth of all his Prophets. And hee said, Thou shalt perswade, and shalt also preuaile: goe forth and do so.
2 Chronicles 18:22	Now therefore behold, the Lord hath put a false spirit in the mouth of these thy Prophets, and the Lord hath determined euill against thee.
2 Chronicles 18:23	Then Zidkiah the sonne of Chenaanah came neere, and smote Michaiah vpon the cheeke, and sayde, By what way went the Spirit of the Lord from me, to speake with thee?
2 Chronicles 18:24	And Michaiah saide, Behold, thou shalt see that day when thou shalt goe from chamber to chamber to hide thee.
2 Chronicles 18:25	And the King of Israel sayde, Take ye Michaiah, and cary him to Amon the gouernour of the citie, and to Ioash the Kings sonne,
2 Chronicles 18:26	And say, Thus saith the King, Put this man in the prison house, and feede him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction vntil I returne in peace.
2 Chronicles 18:27	And Michaiah said, If thou returne in peace, the Lord hath not spoken by me. And he saide, Heare, all ye people.
2 Chronicles 18:28	So the King of Israel and Iehoshaphat the King of Iudah went vp to Ramoth Gilead.
2 Chronicles 18:29	And the King of Israel said vnto Iehoshaphat, I will change my selfe, and enter into the battel: but put thou on thine apparel. So the King of Israel changed himselfe, and they went into the battel.
2 Chronicles 18:30	And the King of Aram had commanded the captaines of the charets that were with him, saying, Fight you not with small, nor great, but against the King of Israel onely.
2 Chronicles 18:31	And when the captaines of the charets saw Iehoshaphat, they sayde, It is the King of Israel: and they compassed about him to fight. But Iehoshaphat cryed, and the Lord helped him and moued them to depart from him.
2 Chronicles 18:32	For when the captaines of the charets saw that hee was not the King of Israel, they turned backe from him.
2 Chronicles 18:33	Then a certaine man drewe a bowe mightily, and smote the King of Israel betweene the ioyntes of his brigandine: Therefore he saide to his charetman, Turne thine hand, and carie mee out of the host: for I am hurt.
2 Chronicles 18:34	And the battel increased that day: and the King of Israel stood still in his charet against the Aramites vntil euen, and dyed at the time of the sunne going downe.
2 Chronicles 19:1	And Iehoshaphat the King of Iudah returned safe to his house in Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 19:2	And Iehu the sonne of Hanani the Seer went out to meete him, and said to King Iehoshaphat, Wouldest thou helpe the wicked, and loue them that hate the Lord? therefore for this thing the wrath of the Lord is vpon thee.
2 Chronicles 19:3	Neuertheles good things are found in thee, because thou hast taken away ye groues out of the land, and hast prepared thine heart to seeke God.
2 Chronicles 19:4	So Iehoshaphat dwelt at Ierusalem, and returned and went through the people from Beer-sheba to mount Ephraim, and brought them againe vnto the Lord God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 19:5	And hee set iudges in the lande throughout all the strong cities of Iudah, citie by citie,
2 Chronicles 19:6	And said to the iudges, Take heede what ye doe: for yee execute not the iudgements of man, but of the Lord, and he will be with you in the cause and iudgement.
2 Chronicles 19:7	Wherefore nowe let the feare of the Lord be vpon you: take heede, and do it: for there is no iniquitie with the Lord our God, neither respect of persons, nor receiuing of reward.
2 Chronicles 19:8	Moreouer in Ierusalem did Iehoshaphat set of the Leuites, and of the Priests and of the chiefe of the families of Israel, for the iudgement and cause of the Lord: and they returned to Ierusale.
2 Chronicles 19:9	And he charged them, saying, Thus shall yee doe in the feare of the Lord faithfully and with a perfite heart.
2 Chronicles 19:10	And in euery cause that shall come to you of your brethren that dwel in their cities, betweene blood and blood, betweene law and precept, statutes and iudgements, ye shall iudge them, and admonish them that they trespasse not against the Lord, that wrath come not vpon you and vpon your brethren. This shall ye do and trespasse not.
2 Chronicles 19:11	And behold, Amariah the Priest shalbe the chiefe ouer you in all matters of the Lord, and Zebadiah ye sonne of Ishmael, a ruler of the house of Iudah, shalbe for al the Kings affaires, and the Leuites shalbe officers before you. Bee of courage, and doe it, and the Lord shalbe with the good.
2 Chronicles 20:1	After this also came the children of Moab and the children of Ammon, and with them of the Ammonites against Iehoshaphat to battell.
2 Chronicles 20:2	Then there came that tolde Iehoshaphat, saying, There commeth a great multitude against thee from beyonde the Sea, out of Aram: and beholde, they bee in Hazzon Tamar, which is En-gedi.
2 Chronicles 20:3	And Iehoshaphat feared, and set him selfe to seeke the Lord, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Iudah.
2 Chronicles 20:4	And Iudah gathered them selues together to aske counsel of the Lord: they came euen out of all the cities of Iudah to inquire of the Lord,
2 Chronicles 20:5	And Iehoshaphat stoode in the Congregation of Iudah and Ierusalem in the house of the Lord before the new court,
2 Chronicles 20:6	And saide, O Lord God of our fathers, art not thou God in heauen? and reignest not thou on all the kingdomes of the heathen? and in thine hande is power and might, and none is able to withstand thee.
2 Chronicles 20:7	Diddest not thou our God cast out ye inhabitants of this lande before thy people Israel, and gauest it to the seede of Abraham thy friende for euer?
2 Chronicles 20:8	And they dwelt therein, and haue built thee a Sanctuarie therein for thy Name, saying,
2 Chronicles 20:9	If euill come vpon vs, as the sworde of iudgement, or pestilence, or famine, we will stande before this house and in thy presence (for thy name is in this house) and will crie vnto thee in our tribulation, and thou wilt heare and helpe.
2 Chronicles 20:10	And now beholde, the children of Ammon and Moab, and mount Seir, by whome thou wouldest not let Israel goe, when they came out of the land of Egypt: but they turned aside from them, and destroyed them not:
2 Chronicles 20:11	Behold, I say, they reward vs, in comming to cast vs out of thine inheritance, which thou hast caused vs to inherit.
2 Chronicles 20:12	O our God, wilt thou not iudge them? for there is no strength in vs to stand before this great multitude that commeth against vs, neither doe wee knowe what to doe: but our eyes are toward thee.
2 Chronicles 20:13	And all Iudah stoode before the Lord with their yong ones, their wiues, and their children.
2 Chronicles 20:14	And Iahaziel the sonne of Zechariah the sonne of Benaiah, the sonne of Ieiel, the sonne of Mattaniah, a Leuite of the sonnes of Asaph was there, vpon whome came the Spirite of ye Lord, in the middes of the Congregation.
2 Chronicles 20:15	And he said, Hearken ye, all Iudah, and ye inhabitantes of Ierusalem, and thou, King Iehoshaphat: thus saith the Lord vnto you, Feare you not, neither be afraide for this great multitude: for the battel is not yours, but Gods.
2 Chronicles 20:16	To morowe goe yee downe against them: beholde, they come vp by the cleft of Ziz, and ye shall finde them at the ende of the brooke before the wildernesse of Ieruel.
2 Chronicles 20:17	Ye shall not neede to fight in this battell: stand still, moue not, and behold the saluation of the Lord towardes you: O Iudah, and Ierusalem, feare ye not, neither be afraid: to morow goe out against them, and the Lord wilbe with you.
2 Chronicles 20:18	Then Iehoshaphat bowed downe with his face to the earth, and all Iudah and the inhabitants of Ierusalem fell downe before the Lord, worshipping the Lord.
2 Chronicles 20:19	And the Leuites of the children of the Kohathites and of the childre of the Corhites stood vp to prayse the Lord God of Israel with a loude voyce on hie.
2 Chronicles 20:20	And when they arose early in the morning, they went forth to the wildernesse of Tekoa: and as they departed, Iehoshaphat stoode and sayde, Heare ye me, O Iudah, and ye inhabitants of Ierusalem: put your trust in the Lord your God, and ye shalbe assured: beleeue his Prophets, and ye shall prosper.
2 Chronicles 20:21	And when he had consulted with the people, and appoynted singers vnto the Lord, and them that should prayse him that is in the beautifull Sanctuarie, in going forth before the men of armes, and saying, Prayse ye the Lord, for his mercy lasteth for euer,
2 Chronicles 20:22	And when they began to shoute, and to prayse, the Lord layed ambushments against the children of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, which were come against Iudah, and they slewe one another.
2 Chronicles 20:23	For the children of Ammon and Moab rose against the inhabitants of mount Seir, to slay and to destroy them and when they had made an end of the inhabitantes of Seir, euery one helped to destroy another.
2 Chronicles 20:24	And when Iudah came towarde Mizpah in the wildernes, they looked vnto the multitude: and behold, the carkeises were fallen to the earth, and none escaped.
2 Chronicles 20:25	And when Iehoshaphat and his people came to take away the spoyle of them, they founde among them in abundance both of substance and also of bodies laden with precious iewels, which they tooke for themselues, till they could cary no more: they were three dayes in gathering of the spoyle: for it was much.
2 Chronicles 20:26	And in the fourth day they assembled themselues in the valley of Berachah: for there they blessed the Lord: therefore they called the name of that place, The valley of Berachah vnto this day.
2 Chronicles 20:27	Then euery man of Iudah and Ierusalem returned with Iehoshaphat their head, to goe againe to Ierusalem with ioy: for the Lord had made them to reioyce ouer their enemies.
2 Chronicles 20:28	And they came to Ierusalem with viols and with harpes, and with trumpets, euen vnto the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 20:29	And the feare of God was vpon all the kingdomes of the earth, whe they had heard that the Lord had fought against ye enemies of Israel.
2 Chronicles 20:30	So the kingdom of Iehoshaphat was quiet, and his God gaue him rest on euery side.
2 Chronicles 20:31	And Iehoshaphat reigned ouer Iudah, and was fiue and thirtie yeere olde, when he began to reigne: and reigned fiue and twentie yeere in Ierusalem, and his mothers name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
2 Chronicles 20:32	And he walked in the way of Asa his father, and departed not therefrom, doing that which was right in the sight of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 20:33	Howbeit the hie places were not taken away: for the people had not yet prepared their hearts vnto the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 20:34	Concerning the rest of the actes of Iehoshaphat first and last, beholde, they are written in the booke of Iehu the sonne of Hanani, which is mentioned in the booke of the kings of Israel.
2 Chronicles 20:35	Yet after this did Iehoshaphat King of Iudah ioyne himselfe with Ahaziah King of Israel, who was giuen to do euill.
2 Chronicles 20:36	And he ioyned with him, to make ships to go to Tarshish: and they made the shippes in Ezion Gaber.
2 Chronicles 20:37	Then Eliezer ye sonne of Dodauah of Mareshah prophecied against Iehoshaphat, saying, Because thou hast ioyned thy selfe with Ahaziah, the Lord hath broken thy workes. and the shippes were broken, that they were not able to go to Tarshish.
2 Chronicles 21:1	Iehosphaphat then slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the citie of Dauid: and Iehoram his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Chronicles 21:2	And he had brethren the sonnes of Iehoshaphat, Azariah, and Iehiel, and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah. All these were the sonnes of Iehoshaphat King of Israel.
2 Chronicles 21:3	And their father gaue them great giftes of siluer and of golde, and of precious things, with strong cities in Iudah, but the kingdome gaue he to Iehoram: for he was the eldest.
2 Chronicles 21:4	And Iehoram rose vp vpon the kingdom of his father, and made himselfe strong, and slew all his brethren with the sworde, and also of the princes of Israel.
2 Chronicles 21:5	Iehoram was two and thirtie yeere olde, when he began to reigne, and he reigned eyght yeere in Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 21:6	And he walked in the way of the Kings of Israel, as the house of Ahab had done: for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife, and he wrought euill in the eyes of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 21:7	Howbeit the Lord would not destroy the house of Dauid, because of the couenant that he had made with Dauid, and because he had promised to giue a light to him, and to his sonnes for euer.
2 Chronicles 21:8	In his dayes Edom rebelled from vnder the hand of Iudah, and made a King ouer them.
2 Chronicles 21:9	And Iehoram went forth with his princes, and all his charets with him: and hee rose vp by night, and smote Edom, which had compassed him in, and the captaines of the charets.
2 Chronicles 21:10	But Edom rebelled from vnder the hande of Iudah vnto this day. then did Libnah rebell at the same time from vnder his hand, because he had forsaken the Lord God of his fathers.
2 Chronicles 21:11	Moreouer hee made hie places in the mountaines of Iudah, and caused the inhabitants of Ierusalem to commit fornication, and compelled Iudah thereto.
2 Chronicles 21:12	And there came a writing to him from Elijah the Prophet, saying, Thus sayth the Lord God of Dauid thy father, Because thou hast not walked in the wayes of Iehoshaphat thy father, nor in the wayes of Asa King of Iudah,
2 Chronicles 21:13	But hast walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and hast made Iudah and the inhabitantes of Ierusalem to go a whoring, as the house of Ahab went a whoring, and hast also slaine thy brethre of thy fathers house, which were better then thou,
2 Chronicles 21:14	Beholde, with a great plague will the Lord smite thy people, and thy children, and thy wiues, and all thy substance,
2 Chronicles 21:15	And thou shalt be in great diseases in the disease of thy bowels, vntill thy bowels fall out for the disease, day by day.
2 Chronicles 21:16	So the Lord stirred vp against Iehoram the spirite of the Philistims, and the Arabians that were beside the Ethiopians.
2 Chronicles 21:17	And they came vp into Iudah, and brake into it, and caryed away all the substance that was found in the Kings house, and his sonnes also, and his wiues, so that there was not a sonne left him, saue Iehoahaz, the yongest of his sonnes.
2 Chronicles 21:18	And after all this, the Lord smote him in his bowels with an incurable disease.
2 Chronicles 21:19	And in processe of time, euen after the end of two yeeres, his guttes fell out with his disease: so he dyed of sore diseases: and his people made no burning for him like the burning of his fathers.
2 Chronicles 21:20	When he began to reigne, he was two and thirtie yeere olde, and reigned in Ierusalem eight yeere, and liued without being desired: yet they buryed him in the citie of Dauid, but not among the sepulchres of the Kings.
2 Chronicles 22:1	And the inhabitants of Ierusalem made Ahaziah his yongest sonne King in his steade: for the armie that came with the Arabians to the campe, had slayne all the eldest: therefore Ahaziah the sonne of Iehoram King of Iudah reigned.
2 Chronicles 22:2	Two and fourtie yeere olde was Ahaziah when he began to reigne, and he reigned one yeere in Ierusalem. and his mothers name was Athaliah the daughter of Omri.
2 Chronicles 22:3	He walked also in the wayes of the house of Ahab: for his mother counselled him to doe wickedly.
2 Chronicles 22:4	Wherefore he did euill in the sight of the Lord, like the house of Ahab: for they were his counsellers after the death of his father, to his destruction.
2 Chronicles 22:5	And he walked after their counsel, and went with Iehoram the sonne of Ahab King of Israel to fight against Hazael king of Aram at Ramoth Gilead: and the Aramites smote Ioram.
2 Chronicles 22:6	And he returned to be healed in Izreel, because of the woundes wherewith they had wounded him at Ramah, when he fought with Hazael King of Aram. Nowe Azariah the sonne of Iehoram King of Iudah went downe to see Iehoram the sonne of Ahab at Izreel, because hee was diseased.
2 Chronicles 22:7	And the destruction of Ahaziah came of God in that he went to Ioram: for when he was come, he went forth with Iehoram against Iehu the sonne of Nimshi, whom the Lord had anointed to destroy the house of Ahab.
2 Chronicles 22:8	Therefore when Iehu executed iudgement vpon the house of Ahab, and found the princes of Iudah and the sonnes of the brethren of Ahaziah that waited on Ahaziah, he slew them also.
2 Chronicles 22:9	And he sought Ahaziah, and they caught him where he was hid in Samaria, and brought him to Iehu, and slewe him, and buryed him, because, sayd they, he is the sonne of Iehoshaphat, which sought the Lord with all his heart. So the house of Ahaziah was not able to reteine the kingdome.
2 Chronicles 22:10	Therefore when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah sawe that her sonne was dead, shee arose and destroyed all the Kings seede of the house of Iudah.
2 Chronicles 22:11	But Iehoshabeath the daughter of ye King, tooke Ioash the sonne of Ahaziah, and stale him from among the Kings sonnes, that shoulde be slayne, and put him and his nource in the bed chamber: so Iehoshabeath the daughter of King Iehoram the wife of Iehoiada the Priest (for shee was the sister of Ahaziah) hid him from Athaliah: so she slew him not.
2 Chronicles 22:12	And hee was with them hid in the house of God sixe yeeres, whiles Athaliah reigned ouer the land.
2 Chronicles 23:1	And in the seuenth yeere Iehoiada waxed bolde, and tooke the captaines of hundreths, to wit, Azariah the sonne of Ieroham, and Ishmael the sonne of Iehohanan, and Azariah the sonne of Obed, and Maasiah the sonne of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the sonne of Zichri in couenant with him.
2 Chronicles 23:2	And they went about in Iudah, and gathered the Leuites out of all the cities of Iudah, and the chiefe fathers of Israel: and they came to Ierusale.
2 Chronicles 23:3	And al the Congregation made a couenant with the King in the house of God: and he sayde vnto them, Behold, the Kings sonne must reigne, as the Lord hath sayd of the sonnes of Dauid.
2 Chronicles 23:4	This is it that ye shall do, The third part of you that come on the Sabbath of the Priests, and the Leuites, shalbe porters of the doores.
2 Chronicles 23:5	And another third part towarde the Kings house, and another thirde part at the gate of the foundation, and al the people shalbe in the courts of the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 23:6	But let none come into the house of the Lord, saue the Priests, and the Leuites that minister: they shall go in, for they are holy: but all the people shall keepe the watch of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 23:7	And the Leuites shall compasse the King rounde about, and euery man with his weapon in his hand, and he that entreth into the house, shall be slaine, and be you with the King, when he commeth in, and when he goeth out.
2 Chronicles 23:8	So the Leuites and all Iudah did according to all things that Iehoiada the Priest had commanded, and tooke euery man his men that came on the Sabbath, with them that went out on the Sabbath: for Iehoiada the Priest did not discharge the courses.
2 Chronicles 23:9	And Iehoiada the Priest deliuered to the captaines of hundreths speares, and shieldes, and bucklers which had bene King Dauids, and were in the house of God.
2 Chronicles 23:10	And he caused all the people to stand (euery man with his weapon in his hande) from the right side of the house, to ye left side of the house by the altar and by the house round about ye king.
2 Chronicles 23:11	Then they brought out the Kings sonne, and put vpon him the crowne and gaue him the testimonie, and made him King. And Iehoiada and his sonnes anoynted him, and sayd, God saue the King.
2 Chronicles 23:12	But when Athaliah heard the noyse of the people running and praising the king, she came to the people into the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 23:13	And when she looked, beholde, the King stoode by his pillar at the entring in, and the princes and the trumpets by the King, and all the people of the land reioyced, and blew the trumpets, and the singers were with instruments of musike, and they that could sing prayse: then Athaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason, treason.
2 Chronicles 23:14	Then Iehoiada the Priest brought out the captaines of hundreths that were gouernours of the hoste, and said vnto them, Haue her foorth of the ranges, and he that followeth her, let him dye by the sword: for the Priest had said, Slay her not in the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 23:15	So they layde hands on her: and when she was come to the entring of the horsegate by the Kings house, they slew her there.
2 Chronicles 23:16	And Iehoiada made a couenant betweene him, and all the people, and the King, that they would be the Lords people.
2 Chronicles 23:17	And all the people went to the house of Baal, and destroyed, and brake his altars and his images, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars.
2 Chronicles 23:18	And Iehoiada appointed officers for the house of the Lord, vnder the handes of the Priestes and Leuites, whome Dauid had distributed for the house of the Lord, to offer burnt offrings vnto the Lord, as it is written in the Law of Moses, with reioycing and singing by the appoyntment of Dauid.
2 Chronicles 23:19	And he set porters by the gates of ye house of the Lord, that none that was vncleane in any thing, should enter in.
2 Chronicles 23:20	And he tooke the captaines of hundreths, and the noble men, and the gouernours of the people, and all the people of the land, and he caused the King to come downe out of the house of the Lord, and they went thorowe the hie gate of the Kings house, and set the King vpon the throne of the kingdome.
2 Chronicles 23:21	Then all the people of the land reioyced, and the citie was quiet, after that they had slaine Athaliah with the sword.
2 Chronicles 24:1	Ioash was seuen yere olde, when he began to reigne, and he reigned fourty yeere in Ierusalem: and his mothers name was Zibiah of Beer-sheba.
2 Chronicles 24:2	And Ioash did vprightly in the sight of the Lord, all the dayes of Iehoiada the Priest.
2 Chronicles 24:3	And Iehoiada tooke him two wiues, and he begate sonnes and daughters.
2 Chronicles 24:4	And afterward it came into Ioash mind, to renew the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 24:5	And he assembled the Priests and the Leuites, and said to them, Goe out vnto the cities of Iudah, and gather of all Israel money to repaire the house of your God, from yeere to yeere, and haste the thing: but the Leuites hasted not.
2 Chronicles 24:6	Therefore the King called Iehoiada, the chiefe, and said vnto him, Why hast thou not required of the Leuites to bring in out of Iudah and Ierusalem the taxe of Moses the seruant of the Lord, and of the Congregation of Israel, for the Tabernacle of the testimonie?
2 Chronicles 24:7	For wicked Athaliah, and her children brake vp the house of God: and all the things that were dedicate for the house of the Lord, did they bestowe vpon Baalim.
2 Chronicles 24:8	Therefore the King commanded, and they made a chest, and set it at the gate of the house of the Lord without.
2 Chronicles 24:9	And they made proclamation thorow Iudah and Ierusalem, to bring vnto the Lord the taxe of Moses the seruant of God, layde vpon Israel in the wildernesse.
2 Chronicles 24:10	And all the princes and all the people reioyced, and brought in, and cast into the chest, vntill they had finished.
2 Chronicles 24:11	And when it was time, they brought the chest vnto the Kings officer by the hand of the Leuites: and when they saw that there was much siluer, then the Kings Scribe (and one appoynted by the hie Priest) came and emptied the chest, and tooke it, and caried it to his place againe: thus they did day by day, and gathered siluer in abundance.
2 Chronicles 24:12	And the King and Iehoiada gaue it to such as did the labour and worke in the house of the Lord, and hyred masons and carpenters to repayre the house of the Lord: they gaue it also to workers of yron and brasse, to repayre the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 24:13	So the workemen wrought, and the worke amended through their hands: and they restored the house of God to his state, and strengthened it.
2 Chronicles 24:14	And when they had finished it, they brought the rest of the siluer before the King and Iehoiada, and he made thereof vessels for the house of the Lord, euen vessels to minister, both morters and incense cuppes, and vessels of golde, and of siluer: and they offred burnt offrings in the house of the Lord continually all the dayes of Iehoiada.
2 Chronicles 24:15	But Iehoiada waxed olde, and was ful of dayes and dyed. An hundreth and thirtie yeere olde was he when he dyed.
2 Chronicles 24:16	And they buried him in the citie of Dauid with the kings, because he had done good in Israel, and toward God and his house.
2 Chronicles 24:17	And after the death of Iehoiada, came the princes of Iudah, and did reuerence to the King, and the King hearkened vnto them.
2 Chronicles 24:18	And they left the house of the Lord God of their fathers, and serued groues and idoles: and wrath came vpon Iudah and Ierusalem, because of this their trespasse.
2 Chronicles 24:19	And God sent Prophets amog the, to bring them againe vnto the Lord: and they made protestation among them, but they would not heare.
2 Chronicles 24:20	And the Spirit of God came vpon Zechariah the sonne of Iehoiada the Priest, which stoode aboue the people, and sayde vnto them, Thus sayth God, Why transgresse ye the commandements of the Lord? surely ye shall not prosper: because ye haue forsaken the Lord, he also hath forsaken you.
2 Chronicles 24:21	Then they conspired against him and stoned him with stones at the commandement of the King, in the court of the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 24:22	Thus Ioash the King remembred not the kindnesse which Iehoiada his father had done to him, but slewe his sonne. And when he dyed, he sayd, The Lord looke vpon it, and require it.
2 Chronicles 24:23	And when the yeere was out, the host of Aram came vp against him, and they came against Iudah and Ierusalem, and destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and sent all the spoyle of them vnto the King of Damascus.
2 Chronicles 24:24	Though the armie of Aram came with a small company of men, yet the Lord deliuered a very great armie into their hand, because they had forsaken the Lord God of their fathers: and they gaue sentence against Ioash.
2 Chronicles 24:25	And when they were departed from him, (for they left him in great diseases) his owne seruants conspired against him for the blood of the children of Iehoiada the Priest, and slewe him on his bed, and he dyed, and they buryed him in the citie of Dauid: but they buryed him not in the sepulchres of the Kings.
2 Chronicles 24:26	And these are they that conspired against him, Zabad the sonne of Shimrath an Ammonitesse, and Iehozabad the sonne of Shimrith a Moabitesse.
2 Chronicles 24:27	But his sonnes, and the summe of the taxe gathered by him, and the foundation of the house of God, behold, they are written in the storie of the booke of the Kings. And Amaziah his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Chronicles 25:1	Amaziah was fiue and twentie yere old when he began to reigne, and he reigned nine and twentie yeere in Ierusalem: and his mothers name was Iehoaddan, of Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 25:2	And he did vprightly in the eyes of the Lord, but not with a perfite heart.
2 Chronicles 25:3	And when the kingdome was established vnto him, he slewe his seruants, that had slaine the King his father.
2 Chronicles 25:4	But he slewe not their children, but did as it is written in the Lawe, and in the booke of Moses, where the Lord commanded, saying, The fathers shall not dye for the children, neyther shall the children die for the fathers, but euery man shall dye for his owne sinne.
2 Chronicles 25:5	And Amaziah assembled Iudah, and made them captaines ouer thousandes, and captaines ouer hundreths, according to the houses of their fathers, thorowout all Iudah and Beniamin: and he nombred them from twentie yeere olde and aboue, and founde among them three hundreth thousand chosen men, to goe foorth to the warre, and to handle speare and shield.
2 Chronicles 25:6	He hyred also an hundreth thousand valiant men out of Israel for an hundreth talents of siluer.
2 Chronicles 25:7	But a man of God came to him, saying, O King, let not the armie of Israel goe with thee: for the Lord is not with Israel, neither with all the house of Ephraim.
2 Chronicles 25:8	If not, goe thou on, doe it, make thy selfe strong to the battel, but God shall make thee fall before the enemie: for God hath power to helpe, and to cast downe.
2 Chronicles 25:9	And Amaziah sayde to the man of God, What shall we doe then for the hundreth talents, which I haue giuen to the hoste of Israel? Then the man of God answered, The Lord is able to giue thee more then this.
2 Chronicles 25:10	So Amaziah separated them, to wit, the armie that was come to him out of Ephraim, to returne to their place: wherefore their wrath was kindled greatly against Iudah, and they returned to their places with great anger.
2 Chronicles 25:11	Then Amaziah was encouraged, and led forth his people, and went to the salt valley, and smote of the children of Seir, ten thousand.
2 Chronicles 25:12	And other ten thousand did the children of Iudah take aliue, and caryed them to the top of a rocke, and cast them downe from the top of the rocke, and they all burst to pieces.
2 Chronicles 25:13	But the men of the armie, which Amaziah sent away, that they should not goe with his people to battell, fell vpon the cities of Iudah from Samaria vnto Beth-horon, and smote three thousand of them, and tooke much spoyle.
2 Chronicles 25:14	Now after that Amaziah was come from the slaughter of the Edomites, he brought the gods of the children of Seir, and set them vp to be his gods, and worshipped them, and burned incense vnto them.
2 Chronicles 25:15	Wherefore the Lord was wroth with Amaziah, and sent vnto him a Prophet, which sayd vnto him, Why hast thou sought the gods of the people, which were not able to deliuer their owne people out of thine hand?
2 Chronicles 25:16	And as he talked with him, he said vnto him, Haue they made thee the Kings counseler? cease thou: why should they smite thee? And the Prophet ceased, but said, I knowe that God hath determined to destroy thee, because thou hast done this, and hast not obeyed my counsell.
2 Chronicles 25:17	Then Amaziah King of Iudah tooke counsell, and sent to Ioash the sonne of Iehoahaz, the sonne of Iehu King of Israel, saying, Come, let vs see one another in the face.
2 Chronicles 25:18	But Ioash King of Israel sent to Amaziah King of Iudah, saying, The thistle that is in Lebanon, sent to the cedar that is in Lebanon, saying, Giue thy daughter to my sonne to wife: and the wilde beast that was in Lebanon went and trode downe the thistle.
2 Chronicles 25:19	Thou thinkest: lo, thou hast smitten Edom, and thine heart lifteth thee vp to bragge: abide now at home: why doest thou prouoke to thine hurt, that thou shouldest fall, and Iudah with thee?
2 Chronicles 25:20	But Amaziah would not heare: for it was of God, that he might deliuer them into his had, because they had sought the gods of Edom.
2 Chronicles 25:21	So Ioash the King of Israel went vp: and he, and Amaziah King of Iudah saw one another in the face at Bethshemesh, which is in Iudah.
2 Chronicles 25:22	And Iudah was put to the worse before Israel, and they fled euery man to his tents.
2 Chronicles 25:23	But Ioash the King of Israel tooke Amaziah King of Iudah, the sonne of Ioash, the sonne of Iehoahaz in Bethshemesh, and brought him to Ierusalem, and brake downe the wall of Ierusalem, from the gate of Ephraim vnto the corner gate, foure hundreth cubites.
2 Chronicles 25:24	And he tooke all the gold and the siluer, and all the vessels that were found in the house of God with Obed Edom, and in the treasures of the Kings house, and the children that were in hostage, and returned to Samaria.
2 Chronicles 25:25	And Amaziah the sonne of Ioash King of Iudah liued after the death of Ioash sonne of Iehoahaz King of Israel, fifteene yeere.
2 Chronicles 25:26	Concerning the rest of the actes of Amaziah first and last, are they not written in the booke of the Kings of Iudah and Israel?
2 Chronicles 25:27	Nowe after the time that Amaziah did turne away from ye Lord, they wrought treason against him in Ierusalem: and when he was fled to Lachish, they sent to Lachish after him, and slewe him there.
2 Chronicles 25:28	And they brought him vpon horses, and buried him with his fathers in the citie of Iudah.
2 Chronicles 26:1	Then all the people of Iudah tooke Vzziah, which was sixteene yeere olde, and made him King in the steade of his father Amaziah.
2 Chronicles 26:2	He buylt Eloth, and restored it to Iudah after that the King slept with his fathers.
2 Chronicles 26:3	Sixteene yeere olde was Vzziah, when he began to reigne, and he reigned two and fiftie yere in Ierusalem, and his mothers name was Iecoliah of Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 26:4	And hee did vprightly in the sight of the Lord, according to al that his father Amaziah did.
2 Chronicles 26:5	And he sought God in the dayes of Zechariah (which vnderstoode the visions of God) and when as he sought the Lord, God made him to prosper.
2 Chronicles 26:6	For he went forth and fought against the Philistims and brake downe the wall of Gath, and the wall of Iabneh, and the wall of Ashdod, and built cities in Ashdod, and among the Philistims.
2 Chronicles 26:7	And God helped him against ye Philistims, and against the Arabians that dwelt in Gur-baal and Hammeunim.
2 Chronicles 26:8	And the Ammonites gaue gifts to Vzziah, and his name spred to the entring in of Egypt: for he did most valiantly.
2 Chronicles 26:9	Moreouer Uzziah buylt towres in Ierusalem at the corner gate, and at the valley gate, and at the turning, and made them strong.
2 Chronicles 26:10	And he built towres in the wildernesse, and digged many cisternes: for he had much cattell both in the valleyes and playnes, plowmen, and dressers of vines in the mountaines, and in Carmel: for he loued husbandrie.
2 Chronicles 26:11	Vzziah had also an hoste of fighting men that went out to warre by bandes, according to the count of their nomber vnder the hande of Ieiel the Scribe, and Maaseiah the ruler, and vnder the hand of Hananiah, one of the Kings captaines.
2 Chronicles 26:12	The whole nomber of the chiefe of the families of the valiant men were two thousande and sixe hundreth.
2 Chronicles 26:13	And vnder their hande was the armie for warre, three hundreth and seuen thousand, and fiue hundreth that fought valiantly to helpe the King against the enemie.
2 Chronicles 26:14	And Vzziah prepared them throughout all the hoste, shieldes, and speares, and helmets, and brigandines, and bowes, and stones to sling.
2 Chronicles 26:15	He made also very artificial engins in Ierusalem, to be vpon the towres and vpon the corners, to shoote arrowes and great stones: and his name spred farre abroade, because God did helpe him marueilously, till he was mightie.
2 Chronicles 26:16	But when he was strong, his heart was lift vp to his destruction: for he transgressed against the Lord his God, and went into the Temple of the Lord to burne incense vpon the altar of incense.
2 Chronicles 26:17	And Azariah the Priest went in after him, and with him foure score Priests of the Lord, valiant men.
2 Chronicles 26:18	And they withstoode Vzziah the King, and said vnto him, It perteineth not to thee, Vzziah, to burne incense vnto the Lord, but to the Priests the sonnes of Aaron, that are consecrated for to offer incense: goe forth of the Sanctuarie: for thou hast transgressed, and thou shalt haue none honour of the Lord God.
2 Chronicles 26:19	Then Vzziah was wroth, and had incense in his hand to burne it: and while he was wroth with the Priestes, the leprosie rose vp in his forehead before the Priestes in the house of the Lord beside the incense altar.
2 Chronicles 26:20	And when Azariah the chiefe Priest with al the Priestes looked vpon him, behold, he was leprous in his forehead, and they caused him hastily to depart thence: and he was euen compelled to go out, because the Lord had smitten him.
2 Chronicles 26:21	And Vzziah the king was a leper vnto the day of his death, and dwelt as a leper in an house apart, because he was cut off from the house of ye Lord: and Iotham his sonne ruled ouer the Kings house, and iudged the people of the land.
2 Chronicles 26:22	Concerning the rest of the acts of Vzziah, first and last, did Isaiah the Prophet the sonne of Amoz write.
2 Chronicles 26:23	So Vzziah slept with his fathers, and they buryed him with his fathers in the fielde of the burial, which perteined to the kings: for they said, He is a leper. And Iotham his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Chronicles 27:1	Iotham was fiue and twentie yere olde when he began to reigne, and reigned sixteene yeere in Ierusalem, and his mothers name was Ierushah the daughter of Zadok.
2 Chronicles 27:2	And hee did vprightly in the sight of the Lord according to all that his father Vzziah did, saue that hee entred not into the Temple of the Lord, and the people did yet corrupt their wayes.
2 Chronicles 27:3	He buylt the hie gate of the house of the Lord, and he buylt very much on the wall of the castle.
2 Chronicles 27:4	Moreouer hee buylt cities in the mountaines of Iudah, and in the forests he buylt palaces and towres.
2 Chronicles 27:5	And he fought with the King of the children of Ammon, and preuailed against them. And the children of Ammon gaue him the same yere an hundreth talents of siluer, and ten thousande measures of wheate, and ten thousand of barley: this did the children of Ammon giue him both in the second yeere and the third.
2 Chronicles 27:6	So Iotham became mightie because hee directed his way before the Lord his God.
2 Chronicles 27:7	Concerning the rest of the acts of Iotham, and all his warres and his wayes, loe, they are written in the booke of the Kings of Israel, and Iudah.
2 Chronicles 27:8	He was fiue and twentie yeere olde when he began to reigne, and reigned sixteene yeere in Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 27:9	And Iotham slept with his fathers, and they buryed him in the citie of Dauid: and Ahaz his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Chronicles 28:1	Ahaz was twentie yeere old when he began to reigne, and reigned sixteene yeere in Ierusalem, and did not vprightly in the sight of the Lord, like Dauid his father.
2 Chronicles 28:2	But he walked in the wayes of ye Kings of Israel, and made euen molten images for Baalim.
2 Chronicles 28:3	Moreouer he burnt incense in the valley of Ben-hinnom, and burnt his sonnes with fire, after the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel.
2 Chronicles 28:4	He sacrificed also and burnt incense in the hie places, and on hilles, and vnder euery greene tree.
2 Chronicles 28:5	Wherefore the Lord his God deliuered him into the hand of the King of the Aramites, and they smote him, and tooke of his, many prisoners, and brought them to Damascus: and he was also deliuered into the hande of the King of Israel, which smote him with a great slaughter.
2 Chronicles 28:6	For Pekah the sonne of Remaliah slewe in Iudah sixe score thousand in one day, all valiant men, because they had forsaken the Lord God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 28:7	And Zichri a mighty man of Ephraim slew Maaseiah the Kings sonne, and Azrikam the gouernour of the house, and Elkanah the second after the King.
2 Chronicles 28:8	And the children of Israel tooke prisoners of their brethren, two hudreth thousand of women, sonnes and daughters, and caried away much spoyle of them, and brought the spoyle to Samaria.
2 Chronicles 28:9	But there was a Prophet of the Lordes, (whose name was Oded) and he went out before the hoste that came to Samaria, and said vnto them, Behold, because the Lord God of your fathers is wroth with Iudah, he hath deliuered them into your hand, and ye haue slaine them in a rage, that reacheth vp to heauen.
2 Chronicles 28:10	And nowe ye purpose to keepe vnder the children of Iudah and Ierusalem, as seruants and handmaides vnto you: but are not you such, that sinnes are with you before the Lord your God?
2 Chronicles 28:11	Nowe therefore heare me, and deliuer the captiues againe, which ye haue taken prisoners of your brethren: for the fierce wrath of the Lord is toward you.
2 Chronicles 28:12	Wherefore certaine of the chiefe of the children of Ephraim, Azariah the sonne of Iehohanan, Berechiah the sonne of Meshillemoth, and Iehizkiah the sonne of Shallum, and Amasa the sonne of Hadlai, stood vp against them that came from the warre,
2 Chronicles 28:13	And said vnto them, Bring not in the captiues hither: for this shalbe a sinne vpon vs against the Lord: ye entende to adde more to our sinnes and to our trespasse, though our trespasse be great, and the fierce wrath of God is against Israel.
2 Chronicles 28:14	So the armie left the captiues and the spoyle before the princes and all the Congregation.
2 Chronicles 28:15	And the men that were named by name, rose vp and tooke the prisoners, and with the spoyle clothed all that were naked among them, and arayed them, and shod them, and gaue them meate, and gaue them drinke, and anoynted them, and caryed all that were feeble of them vpon asses, and brought them to Iericho the citie of Palme trees to their brethren: so they returned to Samaria.
2 Chronicles 28:16	At that time did King Ahaz sende vnto the Kings of Asshur, to helpe him.
2 Chronicles 28:17	(For the Edomites came moreouer, and slew of Iudah, and caryed away captiues.
2 Chronicles 28:18	The Philistims also inuaded the cities in the low countrey, and toward the South of Iudah, and tooke Bethshemesh, and Aialon, and Gederoth and Shocho, with the villages thereof, and Timnah, with her villages, and Gimzo, with her villages, and they dwelt there.
2 Chronicles 28:19	For the Lord had humbled Iudah, because of Ahaz King of Israel: for he had brought vengeance vpon Iudah, and had grieuously transgressed against the Lord)
2 Chronicles 28:20	And Tilgath Pilneeser king of Asshur came vnto him, who troubled him and did not strengthen him.
2 Chronicles 28:21	For Ahaz tooke a portion out of the house of the Lord and out of the Kings house and of the Princes, and gaue vnto the king of Asshur: yet it helped him not.
2 Chronicles 28:22	And in ye time of his tribulation did he yet trespasse more against ye Lord, (this is King Ahaz)
2 Chronicles 28:23	For he sacrificed vnto the gods of Damascus, which plagued him, and he sayd, Because the gods of the Kings of Aram helped them, I wil sacrifice vnto them, and they will helpe me: yet they were his ruine, and of all Israel.
2 Chronicles 28:24	And Ahaz gathered the vessels of ye house of God, and brake the vessels of the house of God, and shut vp the doores of the house of the Lord, and made him altars in euery corner of Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 28:25	And in euery citie of Iudah hee made hie places, to burne incense vnto other gods, and prouoked to anger the Lord God of his fathers.
2 Chronicles 28:26	Concerning the rest of his actes, and all his wayes first and last, beholde, they are written in the booke of the Kings of Iudah, and Israel.
2 Chronicles 28:27	And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the citie of Ierusalem, but brought him not vnto the sepulchres of the Kings of Israel: and Hezekiah his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Chronicles 29:1	Hezekiah began to reigne, when he was fiue and twentie yeere olde, and reigned nine and twentie yeres in Ierusalem: and his mothers name was Abiiah the daughter of Zechariah.
2 Chronicles 29:2	And hee did vprightly in the sight of the Lord, according to all that Dauid his father had done.
2 Chronicles 29:3	He opened the doores of the house of the Lord in the first yeere, and in the first moneth of his reigne, and repared them.
2 Chronicles 29:4	And he brought in the Priests and the Leuites, and gathered them into the East streete,
2 Chronicles 29:5	And said vnto them, Heare me, ye Leuites: sanctifie nowe your selues, and sanctifie the house of the Lord God of your fathers, and cary forth the filthinesse out of the Sanctuarie.
2 Chronicles 29:6	For our fathers haue trespassed, and done euill in the eyes of the Lord our God, and haue forsaken him, and turned away their faces from the Tabernacle of the Lord, and turned their backes.
2 Chronicles 29:7	They haue also shut the doores of ye porch, and quenched the lampes, and haue neither burnt incense, nor offred burnt offrings in the Sanctuarie vnto the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 29:8	Wherfore the wrath of the Lord hath bin on Iudah and Ierusalem: and he hath made them a scattering, a desolation, and an hissing, as ye see with your eyes.
2 Chronicles 29:9	For lo, our fathers are fallen by the sword, and our sonnes, and our daughters, and our wiues are in captiuitie for the same cause.
2 Chronicles 29:10	Now I purpose to make a couenant with the Lord God of Israel, that he may turne away his fierce wrath from vs.
2 Chronicles 29:11	Now my sonnes, be not deceiued: for the Lord hath chosen you to stand before him, to serue him, and to be his ministers, and to burne incense.
2 Chronicles 29:12	Then the Leuites arose, Mahath ye sonne of Amashai, and Ioel the sonne of Azariah of the sonnes of the Kohathites: and of the sonnes of Merari, Kish the sonne of Abdi, and Azariah the sonne of Iehalelel: and of the Gershonites, Ioah the sonne of Zimmah, and Eden the sonne of Ioah:
2 Chronicles 29:13	And of the sonnes of Elizaphan, Shimri, and Iehiel: and of the sonnes of Asaph, Zechariah, and Mattaniah:
2 Chronicles 29:14	And of the sonnes of Heman, Iehiel, and Shimei: and of the sonnes of Ieduthun, Shemaiah and Vzziel.
2 Chronicles 29:15	And they gathered their brethren, and sanctified themselues and came according to the commandement of the King, and by the words of the Lord, for to clense the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 29:16	And the Priests went into the inner partes of the house of the Lord, to clense it, and brought out all the vncleannesse that they founde in the Temple of the Lord, into the court of the house of the Lord: and the Leuites tooke it, to cary it out vnto the brooke Kidron.
2 Chronicles 29:17	They began the first day of the first moneth to sanctifie it, and the eight day of the moneth came they to the porche of the Lord: so they sanctified the house of the Lord in eight dayes, and in the sixeteenth day of the first moneth they made an ende.
2 Chronicles 29:18	Then they went in to Hezekiah ye King, and sayde, We haue clensed all the house of the Lord and the altar of burnt offring, with all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread table, with all the vessels thereof:
2 Chronicles 29:19	And all the vessels which King Ahaz had cast aside when he reigned, and transgressed, haue we prepared and sanctified: and beholde, they are before the altar of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 29:20	And Hezekiah the King rose early, and gathered the princes of the citie, and went vp to the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 29:21	And they brought seuen bullockes, and seuen rammes, and seuen lambes, and seuen hee goates, for a sinne offring for the kingdome, and for the sanctuarie, and for Iudah. And he commanded the Priests the sonnes of Aaron, to offer them on the altar of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 29:22	So they slewe the bullockes, and the Priests receiued the blood, and sprinkled it vpon the altar: they slew also the rammes and sprinkled the blood vpon the altar, and they slew the lambes, and they sprinkled the blood vpon the altar.
2 Chronicles 29:23	Then they brought the hee goates for the sinne offring before the King and the Congregation, and they layde their hands vpon them.
2 Chronicles 29:24	And the Priests slewe them, and with the blood of them they clensed the altar to reconcile all Israel: for the King had commanded for all Israel the burnt offring and the sinne offring.
2 Chronicles 29:25	He appointed also the Leuites in the house of the Lord with cymbales, with violes, and with harpes, according to the commandement of Dauid, and Gad the Kings Seer, and Nathan the Prophet: for the commandement was by the hande of the Lord, and by the hande of his Prophets.
2 Chronicles 29:26	And the Leuites stood with the instruments of Dauid, and the Priests with the trumpets.
2 Chronicles 29:27	And Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offring vpon the altar: and when the burnt offring began, the song of the Lord beganne with the trumpets, and the instruments of Dauid King of Israel.
2 Chronicles 29:28	And al the Congregation worshipped, singing a song, and they blew the trumpets: all this continued vntill the burnt offring was finished.
2 Chronicles 29:29	And when they had made an ende of offring, the King and all that were present with him, bowed themselues, and worshipped.
2 Chronicles 29:30	Then Hezekiah the King and the princes commanded the Leuites to prayse the Lord with the wordes of Dauid, and of Asaph the Seer. so they praysed with ioy, and they bowed themselues, and worshipped.
2 Chronicles 29:31	And Hezekiah spake, and sayde, Now ye haue consecrate your selues to the Lord: come neere and bring the sacrifices and offerings of prayse into the house of the Lord. And the Congregation brought sacrifices; and offrings of prayses, and euery man that was willing in heart, offred burnt offrings.
2 Chronicles 29:32	And the nomber of the burnt offrings, which the Congregation brought, was seuentie bullockes, an hundreth rammes, and two hundreth lambes: all these were for a burnt offring to the Lord:
2 Chronicles 29:33	And for sanctification sixe hundreth bullockes, and three thousand sheepe.
2 Chronicles 29:34	But the Priests were too few, and were not able to flay all the burnt offrings: therefore their brethren the Leuites did helpe them, til they had ended the worke, and vntill other Priests were sanctified: for the Leuites were more vpright in heart to sanctifie themselues, then the Priests.
2 Chronicles 29:35	And also the burnt offerings were many with the fat of the peace offrings and the drinke offrings for the burnt offring. so the seruice of the house of the Lord was set in order.
2 Chronicles 29:36	Then Hezekiah reioyced and all the people, that God had made the people so ready: for the thing was done suddenly.
2 Chronicles 30:1	And Hezekiah sent to all Israel, and Iudah, and also wrote letters to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of the Lord at Ierusalem, to keepe the Passeouer vnto the Lord God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 30:2	And the King and his princes and all the Congregation had taken counsel in Ierusalem to keepe the Passeouer in the second moneth.
2 Chronicles 30:3	For they could not keepe it at this time, because there were not Priests enow sanctified, neither was the people gathered to Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 30:4	And the thing pleased the King, and all the Congregation.
2 Chronicles 30:5	And they decreed to make proclamation throughout all Israel from Beersheba euen to Dan, that they should come to keepe the Passeouer vnto the Lord God of Israel at Ierusalem: for they had not done it of a great time, as it was written.
2 Chronicles 30:6	So the postes went with letters by the commission of the King, and his princes, thorowout all Israel and Iudah, and with the commandement of the King, saying, Ye children of Israel, turne againe vnto the Lord God of Abraham, Izhak, and Israel, and he will returne to the remnant that are escaped of you, out of ye hands of the Kings of Asshur.
2 Chronicles 30:7	And be not ye like your fathers, and like your brethren, which trespassed against the Lord God of their fathers: and therfore he made them desolate, as ye see.
2 Chronicles 30:8	Be not ye now stiffenecked like your fathers, but giue the hand to the Lord, and come into his sanctuarie, which he hath sanctified for euer, and serue the Lord your God, and the fiercenesse of his wrath shall turne away from you.
2 Chronicles 30:9	For if ye returne vnto the Lord, your brethren and your children shall finde mercy before them that led them captiues, and they shall returne vnto this lande: for the Lord your God is gracious and mercifull, and will not turne away his face from you, if ye conuert vnto him.
2 Chronicles 30:10	So the postes went from citie to citie thorow the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, euen vnto Zebulun: but they laughed them to scorne, and mocked them.
2 Chronicles 30:11	Neuerthelesse diuers of Asher, and Manasseh, and of Zebulun submitted themselues, and came to Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 30:12	And the hand of God was in Iudah, so that he gaue them one heart to doe the commandement of the King, and of the rulers, according to the worde of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 30:13	And there assembled to Ierusalem much people, to keepe the feast of ye vnleauened bread in the second moneth, a very great assemblie.
2 Chronicles 30:14	And they arose, and tooke away the altars that were in Ierusalem: and all those for incense tooke they away, and cast them into the brooke Kidron.
2 Chronicles 30:15	Afterwarde they slewe the Passeouer the fourteenth day of the seconde moneth: and the Priestes and Leuites were ashamed, and sanctified themselues, and brought the burnt offrings into the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 30:16	And they stoode in their place after their maner, according to the Lawe of Moses the man of God: and the Priestes sprinkled the blood, receiued of the handes of the Leuites.
2 Chronicles 30:17	Because there were many in the Congregation that were not sanctified, therefore the Leuites had the charge of the killing of ye Passeouer for all that were not cleane, to sanctifie it to the Lord.
2 Chronicles 30:18	For a multitude of the people, euen a multitude of Ephraim, and Manasseh, Issachar and Zebulun had not cleansed themselues, yet did eate the Passeouer, but not as it was written: wherefore Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, The good Lord be mercifull toward him,
2 Chronicles 30:19	That prepareth his whole heart to seeke the Lord God, the God of his fathers, though he be not cleansed, according to the purification of the Sanctuarie.
2 Chronicles 30:20	And the Lord heard Hezekiah, and healed the people.
2 Chronicles 30:21	And the children of Israel that were present at Ierusalem, kept the feast of the vnleauened bread seuen dayes with great ioye, and the Leuites, and the Priestes praysed the Lord, day by day, singing with loude instruments vnto the Lord.
2 Chronicles 30:22	And Hezekiah spake comfortably vnto all the Leuites that had good knowledge to sing vnto the Lord: and they did eate in that feast seuen dayes, and offred peace offrings, and praysed the Lord God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 30:23	And the whole assembly tooke counsel to keepe it other seuen dayes. So they kept it seuen dayes with ioy.
2 Chronicles 30:24	For Hezekiah King of Iudah had giuen to the Congregation a thousande bullockes, and seuen thousand sheepe. And the princes had giuen to the Congregation a thousand bullocks, and ten thousand sheepe: and many Priests were sanctified.
2 Chronicles 30:25	And all the Congregation of Iudah reioyced with the Priestes and the Leuites, and all the Congregation that came out of Israel, and the strangers that came out of the land of Israel, and that dwelt in Iudah.
2 Chronicles 30:26	So there was great ioye in Ierusalem: for since the time of Salomon the sonne of Dauid King of Israel there was not the like thing in Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 30:27	Then the Priests and the Leuites arose, and blessed the people, and their voyce was heard, and their prayer came vp vnto heauen, to his holy habitation.
2 Chronicles 31:1	And when all these thinges were finished, all Israel that were found in the cities of Iudah, went out and brake the images, and cut downe the groues, and brake downe the hie places, and the altars thorowout all Iudah and Beniamin, in Ephraim also and Manasseh, vntil they had made an ende: afterwarde all the children of Israel returned euery man to his possession, into their owne cities.
2 Chronicles 31:2	And Hezekiah appoynted the courses of the Priests and Leuites by their turnes, euery man according to his office, both Priestes and Leuites, for the burnt offring and peace offrings, to minister and to giue thankes, and to prayse in the gates of the tentes of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 31:3	(And the Kings portion was of his owne substance for the burnt offrings, euen for ye burnt offrings of the morning and of the euening, and the burnt offrings for the Sabbaths, and for the new moones, and for the solemne feastes, as it is written in the Law of the Lord)
2 Chronicles 31:4	He commanded also the people that dwelt in Ierusalem, to giue a part to the Priestes, and Leuites, that they might be encouraged in the Law of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 31:5	And when the commandement was spread, the children of Israel brought abundance of first fruites, of corne, wine, and oyle, and honie, and of all the increase of the fielde, and the tithes of all things brought they abundantly.
2 Chronicles 31:6	And the children of Israel and Iudah that dwelt in ye cities of Iudah, they also brought the tithes of bullockes and sheepe, and the holy tithes which were consecrate vnto the Lord their God, and laide them on many heapes.
2 Chronicles 31:7	In the thirde moneth they beganne to lay the foundation of the heapes, and finished them in the seuenth moneth.
2 Chronicles 31:8	And when Hezekiah and the princes came, and saw the heapes, they blessed the Lord and his people Israel.
2 Chronicles 31:9	And Hezekiah questioned with the Priests and the Leuites concerning the heapes.
2 Chronicles 31:10	And Azariah the chiefe Priest of the house of Zadok answered him, and sayde, Since the people beganne to bring the offrings into the house of the Lord, we haue eaten and haue bene satisfied, and there is left in abundance: for the Lord hath blessed his people, and this abundance that is left.
2 Chronicles 31:11	And Hezekiah commanded to prepare chambers in the house of the Lord: and they prepared them,
2 Chronicles 31:12	And caryed in the first fruites, and the tithes, and the dedicate things faithfully: and ouer them was Conaniah the Leuite, the chiefe, and Shimei his brother the seconde.
2 Chronicles 31:13	And Iehiel, and Azariah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Ierimoth, and Iozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah were ouerseers by the appointment of Conaniah, and Shimei his brother, and by the commandement of Hezekiah the King, and of Azariah the chiefe of the house of God.
2 Chronicles 31:14	And Kore the sonne of Imnah the Leuite porter towarde the East, was ouer the things that were willingly offred vnto God, to distribute the oblations of the Lord, and the holy things that were consecrate.
2 Chronicles 31:15	And at his hande were Eden, and Miniamin, and Ieshua, and Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shechaniah, in the cities of the Priestes, to distribute with fidelitie to their brethren by courses, both to the great and small,
2 Chronicles 31:16	Their daily portion: beside their generation being males from three yeere olde and aboue, euen to all that entred into the house of the Lord to their office in their charge, according to their courses:
2 Chronicles 31:17	Both to the generation of the Priestes after the house of their fathers, and to the Leuites from twentie yeere olde and aboue, according to their charge in their courses:
2 Chronicles 31:18	And to the generation of all their children, their wiues, and their sonnes and their daughters throughout all ye Congregation: for by their fidelitie are they partakers of the holy things.
2 Chronicles 31:19	Also to the sonnes of Aaron, the Priestes, which were in the fieldes and suburbes of their cities, in euery citie the men that were appointed by names, shoulde giue portions to all the males of the Priestes, and to all the generation of the Leuites.
2 Chronicles 31:20	And thus did Hezekiah throughout al Iudah, and did well, and vprightly, and truely before the Lord his God.
2 Chronicles 31:21	And in all the workes that he began for the seruice of the house of God, both in the Law and in the commandements, to seeke his God, he did it with all his heart, and prospered.
2 Chronicles 32:1	After these things faithfully described, Saneherib King of Asshur came and entred into Iudah, and besieged the strong cities, and thought to winne them for him selfe.
2 Chronicles 32:2	When Hezekiah sawe that Saneherib was come, and that his purpose was to fight against Ierusalem,
2 Chronicles 32:3	Then he tooke counsell with his princes and his nobles, to stoppe the water of the fountaines without the citie: and they did helpe him.
2 Chronicles 32:4	So many of the people assembled themselues, and stopt all the fountaines, and the riuer that ranne through the middes of the countrey, saying, Why should the Kings of Asshur come, and finde much water?
2 Chronicles 32:5	And he tooke courage, and built all the broken wall, and made vp the towers, and another wall without, and repayred Millo in the citie of Dauid, and made many dartes and shields.
2 Chronicles 32:6	And he set captaines of warre ouer the people, and assembled them to him in the broade place of the gate of the citie, and spake comfortably vnto them, saying,
2 Chronicles 32:7	Be strong and couragious: feare not, neither be afraide for the King of Asshur, neither for all the multitude that is with him: for there be more with vs, then is with him.
2 Chronicles 32:8	With him is an arme of flesh, but with vs is the Lord our God for to helpe vs, and to fight our battels. Then the people were confirmed by the wordes of Hezekiah King of Iudah.
2 Chronicles 32:9	After this, did Saneherib King of Asshur send his seruants to Ierusalem (while he was against Lachish, and all his dominion with him) vnto Hezekiah King of Iudah and vnto all Iudah that were at Ierusalem, saying,
2 Chronicles 32:10	Thus saith Saneherib the King of Asshur, Wherein doe ye trust, that ye will remaine in Ierusalem, during the siege?
2 Chronicles 32:11	Doeth not Hezekiah entice you to giue ouer your selues vnto death by famine and by thirst, saying, The Lord our God shall deliuer vs out of the hande of the King of Asshur?
2 Chronicles 32:12	Hath not the same Hezekiah taken away his hie places and his altars, and commanded Iudah and Ierusalem, saying, Ye shall worshippe before one altar, and burne incense vpon it?
2 Chronicles 32:13	Knowe ye not what I and my fathers haue done vnto all the people of other countreyes? were the gods of the nations of other landes able to deliuer their land out of mine hande?
2 Chronicles 32:14	Who is he of al the gods of those natios (that my fathers haue destroied) that could deliuer his people out of mine hande? that your God should be able to deliuer you out of mine hand?
2 Chronicles 32:15	Nowe therefore let not Hezekiah deceiue you, nor seduce you after this sort, neither beleeue ye him: for none of all the gods of any nation or kingdome was able to deliuer his people out of mine hande and out of the hande of my fathers: howe much lesse shall your gods deliuer you out of mine hande?
2 Chronicles 32:16	And his seruants spake yet more against the Lord God, and against his seruant Hezekiah.
2 Chronicles 32:17	He wrote also letters, blaspheming the Lord God of Israel and speaking against him, saying, As the gods of the nations of other countreies could not deliuer their people out of mine hand, so shall not the God of Hezekiah deliuer his people out of mine hande.
2 Chronicles 32:18	Then they cryed with a loude voyce in the Iewes speach vnto the people of Ierusalem that were on the wall, to feare them and to astonish them, that they might take the citie.
2 Chronicles 32:19	Thus they spake against the God of Ierusalem, as against the gods of the people of the earth, euen the workes of mans hands,
2 Chronicles 32:20	But Hezekiah the King, and the Prophet Isaiah the sonne of Amoz prayed against this and cryed to heauen.
2 Chronicles 32:21	And the Lord sent an Angel which destroyed all the valiant men, and the princes and captaines of the hoste of the King of Asshur: so he returned with shame to his owne lande. And when he was come into the house of his god, they that came foorth of his owne bowels, slewe him there with the sworde.
2 Chronicles 32:22	So the Lord saued Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Ierusalem from the hande of Saneherib King of Asshur, and from the hande of all other, and maintained them on euery side.
2 Chronicles 32:23	And many brought offrings vnto the Lord to Ierusalem, and presents to Hezekiah King of Iudah, so that he was magnified in the sight of all nations from thencefoorth.
2 Chronicles 32:24	In those dayes Hezekiah was sicke vnto the death, and prayed vnto the Lord, who spake vnto him, and gaue him a signe.
2 Chronicles 32:25	But Hezekiah did not render according to the rewarde bestowed vpon him: for his heart was lift vp, and wrath came vpon him, and vpon Iudah and Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 32:26	Notwithstanding Hezekiah humbled him selfe (after that his heart was lifted vp) he and the inhabitants of Ierusalem, and the wrath of the Lord came not vpon them in the dayes of Hezekiah.
2 Chronicles 32:27	Hezekiah also had exceeding much riches and honour, and he gate him treasures of siluer, and of golde, and of precious stones, and of sweete odours, and of shieldes, and of all pleasant vessels:
2 Chronicles 32:28	And of store houses for the increase of wheat and wine and oyle, and stalles for all beasts, and rowes for the stables.
2 Chronicles 32:29	And he made him cities, and had possession of sheepe and oxen in abundance: for God had giuen him substance exceeding much.
2 Chronicles 32:30	This same Hezekiah also stopped the vpper water springs of Gihon, and led them streight vnderneath towarde the citie of Dauid Westwarde. so Hezekiah prospered in all his workes.
2 Chronicles 32:31	But because of the ambassadours of the princes of Babel, which sent vnto him to enquire of the wonder that was done in the lande, God left him to trie him, and to knowe all that was in his heart.
2 Chronicles 32:32	Concerning the rest of the actes of Hezekiah, and his goodnesse, beholde, they are written in the vision of Ishiah the Prophet, the sonne of Amoz, in the booke of the Kings of Iudah and Israel.
2 Chronicles 32:33	So Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buryed him in the highest sepulchre of the sonnes of Dauid: and all Iudah and the inhabitants of Ierusalem did him honour at his death: and Manasseh his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Chronicles 33:1	Manasseh was twelue yeere olde, when he beganne to reigne, and he reigned fiue and fiftie yeere in Ierusalem:
2 Chronicles 33:2	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord, like the abominations of the heathen, who the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:3	For he went backe and built the hie places, which Hezekiah his father had broken downe: and he set vp altars for Baalim, and made groues, and worshipped all the hoste of the heauen, and serued them.
2 Chronicles 33:4	Also he built altars in the house of the Lord, whereof the Lord had saide, In Ierusalem shall my Name be for euer.
2 Chronicles 33:5	And he built altars for all the hoste of the heauen in the two courtes of the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 33:6	And he caused his sonnes to passe through the fire in the valley of Ben-hinnom: he gaue him selfe to witchcraft and to charming and to sorcerie, and he vsed them that had familiar spirits, and soothsayers: hee did very much euill in the sight of the Lord to anger him.
2 Chronicles 33:7	He put also the carued image, which he had made, in the house of God: whereof God had said to Dauid and to Salomon his sonne, In this house and in Ierusalem, which I haue chosen before all the tribes of Israel, will I put my Name for euer,
2 Chronicles 33:8	Neither will I make the foote of Israel to remooue any more out of the lande which I haue appointed for your fathers, so that they take heede, and do all that I haue commanded them, according to the Lawe and statutes and iudgements by the hande of Moses.
2 Chronicles 33:9	So Manasseh made Iudah and the inhabitants of Ierusalem to erre, and to doe worse then the heathen, whome the Lord had destroyed before the children of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:10	And the Lord spake to Manasseh and to his people, but they would not regarde.
2 Chronicles 33:11	Wherefore the Lord brought vpon them the captaines of the hoste of the King of Asshur, which tooke Manasseh and put him in fetters, and bound him in chaines, and caryed him to Babel.
2 Chronicles 33:12	And when he was in tribulation, he prayed to the Lord his God, and humbled him selfe greatly before the God of his fathers,
2 Chronicles 33:13	And prayed vnto him: and God was entreated of him, and heard his prayer, and brought him againe to Ierusalem into his kingdome: then Manasseh knewe that the Lord was God.
2 Chronicles 33:14	Nowe after this he built a wall without the citie of Dauid, on the Westside of Gihon in the valley, euen at the entrie of the fish gate, and compassed about Ophel, and raised it very hie, and put captaines of warre in all the strong cities of Iudah.
2 Chronicles 33:15	And he tooke away the strange gods and the image out of the house of the Lord, and all the altars that he had built in the mount of the house of the Lord, and in Ierusalem, and cast them out of the citie.
2 Chronicles 33:16	Also he prepared the altar of the Lord, and sacrificed thereon peace offerings, and of thankes, and commanded Iudah to serue the Lord God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:17	Neuerthelesse the people did sacrifice stil in the hie places, but vnto the Lord their God.
2 Chronicles 33:18	Concerning the rest of the actes of Manasseh, and his prayer vnto his God, and the words of the Seers, that spake to him in ye Name of the Lord God of Israel, beholde, they are written in the booke of the Kings of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:19	And his prayer and how God was intreated of him, and all his sinne, and his trespasse, and the places wherein he built hie places, and set groues and images (before he was humbled) behold, they are written in the booke of the Seers.
2 Chronicles 33:20	So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his owne house: and Amon his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Chronicles 33:21	Amon was two and twentie yeere olde, when he began to reigne, and reigned two yeere in Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 33:22	But he did euill in the sight of the Lord, as did Manasseh his father: for Amon sacrificed to all the images, which Manasseh his father had made, and serued them,
2 Chronicles 33:23	And he humbled not him selfe before the Lord, as Manasseh his father had humbled himselfe: but this Amon trespassed more and more.
2 Chronicles 33:24	And his seruants conspired against him, and slewe him in his owne house.
2 Chronicles 33:25	But the people of the land slewe all them that had conspired against King Amon: and the people of the land made Iosiah his sonne King in his steade.
2 Chronicles 34:1	Iosiah was eight yeere olde when hee began to reigne, and he reigned in Ierusalem one and thirtie yeere.
2 Chronicles 34:2	And he did vprightly in the sight of ye Lord, and walked in the wayes of Dauid his father, and bowed neither to the right hand nor to the left.
2 Chronicles 34:3	And in the eight yeere of his reigne (when he was yet a childe) he began to seeke after the God of Dauid his father: and in the twelft yeere he began to purge Iudah, and Ierusalem from the hie places, and the groues, and the carued images, and molten images:
2 Chronicles 34:4	And they brake downe in his sight the altars of Baalim, and hee caused to cut downe the images that were on hie vpon them: he brake also the groues, and the carued images, and the molten images, and stampt them to pouder, and strowed it vpon the graues of them that had sacrificed vnto them.
2 Chronicles 34:5	Also he burnt the bones of the Priests vpon their altars, and purged Iudah and Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:6	And in the cities of Manasseh, and Ephraim, and Simeon, euen vnto Naphtali, with their maules they brake all round about.
2 Chronicles 34:7	And when he had destroyed the altars and the groues, and had broken and stamped to pouder the images, and had cut downe all the idoles throughout all the land of Israel, hee returned to Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:8	Then in the eightenth yere of his reigne, when hee had purged the lande and the Temple, he sent Shaphan the sonne of Azaliah, and Maaseiah the gouernour of the citie, and Ioah the sonne of Ioahaz the recorder, to repaire the house of the Lord his God.
2 Chronicles 34:9	And when they came to Hilkiah the hie Priest, they deliuered ye money that was brought into the house of God, which the Leuites that kept the doore, had gathered at the hand of Manasseh, and Ephraim, and of all the residue of Israel, and of all Iudah and Beniamin, and of the inhabitantes of Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:10	And they put it in the hands of them that should doe the worke and had the ouersight in the house of the Lord: and they gaue it to the workemen that wrought in the house of ye Lord, to repaire and amend the house.
2 Chronicles 34:11	Euen to the workemen and to the builders gaue they it, to bye hewed stone and timber for couples and for beames of the houses, which the Kings of Iudah had destroyed.
2 Chronicles 34:12	And the men did the worke faithfully, and the ouerseers of them were Iahath and Obadiah the Leuites, of the children of Merari, and Zechariah, and Meshullam, of the children of the Kohathites to set it forward: and of the Leuites all that could skill of instruments of musike.
2 Chronicles 34:13	And they were ouer the bearers of burdens, and them that set forwarde all the workemen in euery worke: and of the Leuites were scribes, and officers and porters.
2 Chronicles 34:14	And when they brought out the money that was brought into the house of the Lord, Hilkiah the Priest found the booke of the Lawe of the Lord giuen by the hand of Moses.
2 Chronicles 34:15	Therefore Hilkiah answered and sayde to Shaphan the chaceler, I haue found the booke of the Law in the house of the Lord: and Hilkiah gaue the booke to Shaphan.
2 Chronicles 34:16	And Shaphan caried the booke to the King, and brought the King worde againe, saying, All that is committed to the hand of thy seruants, that do they.
2 Chronicles 34:17	For they haue gathered the money that was found in the house of the Lord, and haue deliuered it into the handes of the ouerseers, and to the handes of the workemen.
2 Chronicles 34:18	Also Shaphan ye chanceler declared to the King, saying, Hilkiah the Priest hath giuen mee a booke, and Shaphan read it before the King.
2 Chronicles 34:19	And when the King had heard the wordes of the Lawe, he tare his clothes.
2 Chronicles 34:20	And the King commanded Hilkiah, and Ahikam the sonne of Shaphan, and Abdon the sonne of Micah, and Shaphan the chanceler, and Asaiah the Kings seruant, saying,
2 Chronicles 34:21	Goe and enquire of the Lord for me, and for the rest in Israel and Iudah, concerning the wordes of this booke that is founde: for great is the wrath of the Lord that is fallen vpon vs, because our fathers haue not kept the worde of the Lord, to doe after all that is written in this booke.
2 Chronicles 34:22	Then Hilkiah and they that the King had appoynted, went to Huldah the Prophetesse ye wife of Shallum, the sonne of Tokhath, the sonne of Hasrah keeper of the wardrobe (and she dwelt in Ierusalem within the colledge) and they communed hereof with her.
2 Chronicles 34:23	And shee answered them, Thus sayth the Lord God of Israel, Tell yee the man that sent you to me,
2 Chronicles 34:24	Thus saith the Lord, Beholde, I will bring euill vpon this place, and vpon the inhabitantes thereof, euen all the curses, that are written in the booke which they haue read before the King of Iudah:
2 Chronicles 34:25	Because they haue forsaken me, and burnt incense vnto other gods, to anger mee with al the workes of their hands, therefore shall my wrath fall vpon this place, and shall not be quenched.
2 Chronicles 34:26	But to the King of Iudah, who sent you to enquire of the Lord, so shall ye say vnto him, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, The words which thou hast heard, shall come to passe.
2 Chronicles 34:27	But because thine heart did melt, and thou didest humble thy selfe before God, when thou heardest his wordes against this place and against the inhabitantes thereof, and humbledst thy selfe before mee and tarest thy clothes, and weptest before mee, I haue also heard it, sayth the Lord.
2 Chronicles 34:28	Beholde, I will gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shalt bee put in thy graue in peace, and thine eyes shall not see all the euill, which I will bring vpon this place, and vpon the inhabitants of the same. Thus they brought ye King word againe.
2 Chronicles 34:29	Then the King sent and gathered all the Elders of Iudah and Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:30	And the King went vp into the house of the Lord, and all the men of Iudah, and the inhabitants of Ierusalem, and the Priests and the Leuites, and all the people from the greatest to the smallest, and hee read in their eares all the wordes of the booke of the couenant that was found in the house of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 34:31	And the King stood by his pillar, and made a couenant before the Lord, to walke after the Lord, and to keepe his commandements, and his testimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and with all his soule, and that he would accomplish the wordes of the couenant written in the same booke.
2 Chronicles 34:32	And he caused all that were found in Ierusalem, and Beniamin to stande to it: and the inhabitants of Ierusalem did according to the couenant of God, euen the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 34:33	So Iosiah tooke away al the abominations out of all the countreis that perteined to the children of Israel, and compelled all that were found in Israel, to serue the Lord their God: so all his dayes they turned not backe from the Lord God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 35:1	Moreouer Iosiah kept a Passeouer vnto the Lord in Ierusalem, and they slewe the Passeouer in the fourtenth day of the first moneth.
2 Chronicles 35:2	And he appointed the Priestes to their charges, and incouraged them to the seruice of the house of the Lord,
2 Chronicles 35:3	And he sayd vnto the Leuites that taught all Israel and were sanctified vnto the Lord, Put the holy Arke in the house which Salomon the sonne of Dauid King of Israel did build: it shalbe no more a burden vpon your shoulders: serue now the Lord your God and his people Israel,
2 Chronicles 35:4	And prepare your selues by the houses of your fathers according to your courses, as Dauid the King of Israel hath written, and according to the writing of Salomon his sonne,
2 Chronicles 35:5	And stande in the Sanctuarie according to the deuision of the families of your brethren the children of the people, and after the deuision of the familie of the Leuites:
2 Chronicles 35:6	So kill the Passeouer and sanctifie your selues, and prepare your brethren that they may doe according to the worde of the Lord by the hand of Moses.
2 Chronicles 35:7	Iosiah also gaue to the people sheepe, lambs and kiddes, all for the Passeouer, euen to all that were present, to the nomber of thirtie thousand, and three thousande bullocks: these were of the Kings substance.
2 Chronicles 35:8	And his princes offred willingly vnto the people, to the Priests and to the Leuites: Hilkiah, and Zechariah, and Iehiel, rulers of the house of God, gaue vnto the Priests for the Passeouer, euen two thousand and sixe hundreth sheepe, and three hundreth bullockes.
2 Chronicles 35:9	Conaniah also and Shemaiah and Nethaneel his brethren, and Hashabiah and Ieiel, and Iozabad, chiefe of the Leuites gaue vnto the Leuites for the Passeouer, fiue thousand sheepe, and fiue hundreth bullockes.
2 Chronicles 35:10	Thus the seruice was prepared, and the Priests stoode in their places, also the Leuites in their orders, according to the Kings commandement:
2 Chronicles 35:11	And they slewe the Passeouer, and the Priests sprinkled the blood with their handes, and the Leuites flayed them.
2 Chronicles 35:12	And they tooke away from the burnt offering to giue it according to the deuisions of the families of the children of the people, to offer vnto the Lord, as it is written in the booke of Moses, and so of the bullockes.
2 Chronicles 35:13	And they rosted the Passeouer with fire, according to ye custome, but the sanctified things they sod in pots, pannes, and cauldrons, and distributed them quickely to all the people.
2 Chronicles 35:14	Afterwarde also they prepared for them selues and for the Priestes: for the Priestes the sonnes of Aaron were occupied in offering of burnt offrings, and the fat vntill night: therefore the Leuites prepared for them selues, and for the Priests the sonnes of Aaron.
2 Chronicles 35:15	And the singers the sonnes of Asaph stoode in their standing according to the commandement of Dauid, and Asaph, and Heman, and Ieduthun the Kings Seer: and the porters at euery gate, who might not depart from their seruice: therefore their brethren the Leuites prepared for them.
2 Chronicles 35:16	So all the seruice of the Lord was prepared the same day, to keepe the Passeouer, and to offer burnt offerings vpon the altar of the Lord, according to the commandement of King Iosiah.
2 Chronicles 35:17	And the children of Israel that were present, kept the Passeouer the same time, and the feast of the vnleauened bread seuen dayes.
2 Chronicles 35:18	And there was no Passeouer kept like that, in Israel, from the dayes of Samuel the Prophet: neyther did all the Kings of Israel keepe such a Passeouer as Iosiah kept, and the Priestes and the Leuites, and all Iudah, and Israel that were present, and the inhabitants of Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 35:19	This Passeouer was kept in the eighteenth yeere of the reigne of Iosiah.
2 Chronicles 35:20	After all this, when Iosiah had prepared the Temple, Necho King of Egypt came vp to fight against Carchemish by Perath, and Iosiah went out against him.
2 Chronicles 35:21	But he sent messengers to him, saying, What haue I to doe with thee, thou King of Iudah? I come not against thee this day, but against the house of mine enemie, and God commanded me to make haste: leaue of to come against God, which is with me, least he destroy thee.
2 Chronicles 35:22	But Iosiah would not turne his face from him, but changed his apparel to fight with him, and hearkened not vnto the wordes of Necho, which were of the mouth of God, but came to fight in the valley of Megiddo.
2 Chronicles 35:23	And the shooters shot at king Iosiah: then the King saide to his seruants, Cary me away, for I am very sicke.
2 Chronicles 35:24	So his seruants tooke him out of that charet, and put him in the seconde charet which he had, and when they had brought him to Ierusalem, he dyed, and was buryed in the sepulchres of his fathers: and all Iudah and Ierusalem mourned for Iosiah.
2 Chronicles 35:25	And Ieremiah lamented Iosiah, and al singing men and singing women mourned for Iosiah in their lamentations to this day, and made the same for an ordinance vnto Israel: and beholde, they be written in the lamentations.
2 Chronicles 35:26	Concerning the rest of the actes of Iosiah and his goodnesse, doing as it was written in the Lawe of the Lord,
2 Chronicles 35:27	And his deedes, first and last, behold, they are written in the booke of the Kings of Israel and Iudah.
2 Chronicles 36:1	Then the people of the lande tooke Iehoahaz the sonne of Iosiah, and made him king in his fathers steade in Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:2	Iehoahaz was three and twentie yeere old when he began to reigne, and he reigned three moneths in Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:3	And the King of Egypt tooke him away at Ierusalem, and condemned the lande in an hundreth talents of siluer, and a talent of gold.
2 Chronicles 36:4	And the King of Egypt made Eliakim his brother King ouer Iudah and Ierusalem, and turned his name to Iehoiakim: and Necho tooke Iehoahaz his brother, and caryed him to Egypt.
2 Chronicles 36:5	Iehoiakim was fiue and twentie yeere old, when he began to reigne, and he reigned eleuen yeere in Ierusalem, and did euill in the sight of the Lord his God.
2 Chronicles 36:6	Against him came vp Nebuchadnezzar King of Babel, and bounde him with chaines to cary him to Babel.
2 Chronicles 36:7	Nebuchadnezzar also caryed of the vessels of the house of the Lord to Babel, and put them in his temple at Babel.
2 Chronicles 36:8	Concerning the rest of the actes of Iehoiakim, and his abominations which he did, and that which was founde vpon him, behold, they are written in the booke of the Kings of Israel and Iudah, and Iehoiachin his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Chronicles 36:9	Iehoiachin was eight yeere olde when he beganne to reigne, and he reigned three moneths and ten dayes in Ierusalem, and did euill in the sight of the Lord.
2 Chronicles 36:10	And when the yeere was out, King Nebuchadnezzar sent and brought him to Babel with the precious vessels of the house of the Lord, and he made Zedekiah his brother King ouer Iudah and Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:11	Zedekiah was one and twentie yeere olde, when he beganne to reigne, and reigned eleuen yeere in Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:12	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord his God, and humbled not himselfe before Ieremiah the Prophet at the commandement of the Lord,
2 Chronicles 36:13	But he rebelled moreouer against Nebuchadnezzar, which had caused him to sweare by God: and he hardened his necke and made his heart obstinate that he might not returne to the Lord God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 36:14	All the chiefe of the Priestes also and of the people trespassed wonderfully, according to all the abominations of the heathen, and polluted the house of the Lord which he had sanctified in Ierusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:15	Therefore the Lord God of their fathers sent to them by his messengers, rising earely and sending: for he had compassion on his people, and on his habitation.
2 Chronicles 36:16	But they mocked the messengers of God and despised his wordes, and misused his Prophets, vntill the wrath of the Lord arose against his people, and till there was no remedie.
2 Chronicles 36:17	For he brought vpon them the King of the Caldeans, who slewe their yong men with the sworde in the house of their Sanctuarie, and spared neither yong man, nor virgin, ancient, nor aged. God gaue all into his hande,
2 Chronicles 36:18	And all the vessels of the house of God great and small, and the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the King, and of his princes: all these caryed he to Babel.
2 Chronicles 36:19	And they burnt the house of God, and brake downe the wall of Ierusalem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and all the precious vessels thereof, to destroy all.
2 Chronicles 36:20	And they that were left by the sworde, caryed he away to Babel, and they were seruants to him and to his sonnes, vntill the kingdome of the Persians had rule,
2 Chronicles 36:21	To fulfill the worde of the Lord by the mouth of Ieremiah, vntill the lande had her fill of her Sabbaths: for all the dayes that she lay desolate, she kept Sabbath, to fulfill seuentie yeeres.
2 Chronicles 36:22	But in the first yeere of Cyrus King of Persia (when the worde of the Lord, spoken by the mouth of Ieremiah, was finished) the Lord stirred vp the spirit of Cyrus King of Persia, and he made a proclamation through all his kingdome, and also by writing, saying,
2 Chronicles 36:23	Thus saith Cyrus King of Persia, All the kingdomes of the earth hath the Lord God of heauen giuen me, and hath commanded me to build him an house in Ierusalem, that is in Iudah. Who is among you of all his people, with whom the Lord his God is? let him goe vp.
