GENEVA 1599 PUBLIC DOMAIN CORPUS

===== BOOK: Leviticus =====
Leviticus 1:1	Nowe the Lord called Moses, and spake vnto him out of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, saying,
Leviticus 1:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and thou shalt say vnto them, If any of you offer a sacrifice vnto the Lord, ye shall offer your sacrifice of cattell, as of beeues and of the sheepe.
Leviticus 1:3	If his sacrifice be a burnt offering of the heard, he shall offer a male without blemish, presenting him of his owne voluntarie will at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the Lord.
Leviticus 1:4	And he shall put his hande vpon the head of the burnt offering, and it shalbe accepted to the Lord, to be his atonement.
Leviticus 1:5	And he shall kill the bullocke before the Lord, and the Priestes Aarons sonnes shall offer the blood, and shall sprinckle it round about vpon the altar, that is by the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Leviticus 1:6	Then shall he fley the burnt offering, and cut it in pieces.
Leviticus 1:7	So the sonnes of Aaron the Priest shall put fire vpon the altar, and lay the wood in order vpon the fire.
Leviticus 1:8	Then the Priestes Aarons sonnes shall lay the parts in order, the head and the kall vpon the wood that is in the fire which is vpon the altar.
Leviticus 1:9	But the inwardes thereof and the legges thereof he shall wash in water, and the Priest shall burne all on the altar: for it is a burnt offering, an oblation made by fire, for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 1:10	And if his sacrifice for the burnt offering be of the flocks (as of the sheepe, or of the goats) he shall offer a male without blemish,
Leviticus 1:11	And he shall kill it on the Northside of the altar before the Lord, and the Priestes Aarons sonnes shall sprinckle the blood thereof rounde about vpon the altar.
Leviticus 1:12	And he shall cut it in pieces, separating his head and his kall, and the Priest shall lay them in order vpon the wood that lyeth in the fire which is on the altar:
Leviticus 1:13	But he shall wash the inwardes, and the legges with water, and the Priest shall offer the whole and burne it vpon the altar: for it is a burnt offering, an oblation made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 1:14	And if his sacrifice be a burnt offring to the Lord of ye foules, then he shall offer his sacrifice of the turtle doues, or of the yong pigeons.
Leviticus 1:15	And the Priest shall bring it vnto the altar, and wring the necke of it asunder, and burne it on the altar: and the blood thereof shall bee shed vpon the side of the altar.
Leviticus 1:16	And he shall plucke out his maw with his fethers, and cast them beside the altar on the East part in the place of the ashes.
Leviticus 1:17	And he shall cleaue it with his wings, but not deuide it asunder: and the Priest shall burne it vpon the altar vpon the wood that is in the fire: for it is a burnt offering, an oblation made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 2:1	And when any will offer a meate offering vnto the Lord, his offering shall be of fine floure, and he shall powre oyle vpon it, and put incense thereon,
Leviticus 2:2	And shall bring it vnto Aarons sonnes the Priestes, and he shall take thence his handfull of the flowre, and of the oyle with al the incense, and the Priest shall burne it for a memoriall vpon the altar: for it is an offering made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 2:3	But the remnant of the meate offering shalbe Aarons and his sonnes: for it is most holy of the Lordes offrings made by fire.
Leviticus 2:4	If thou bring also a meate offring baken in the ouen, it shalbe an vnleauened cake of fine floure mingled with oyle, or an vnleauened wafer anointed with oyle.
Leviticus 2:5	But if thy meate offring be an oblation of the frying pan, it shall be of fine flowre vnleauened, mingled with oyle.
Leviticus 2:6	And thou shalt part it in pieces, and power oyle thereon: for it is a meate offring.
Leviticus 2:7	And if thy meate offring be an oblation made in the caldron, it shalbe made of fine floure with oyle.
Leviticus 2:8	After, thou shalt bring the meate offering (that is made of these things) vnto the Lord, and shalt present it vnto the Priest, and he shall bring it to the altar,
Leviticus 2:9	And the Priest shall take from the meate offring a memoriall of it, and shall burne it vpon the altar: for it is an oblation made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 2:10	But that which is left of the meate offring, shalbe Aarons and his sonnes: for it is most holy of the offrings of the Lord made by fire.
Leviticus 2:11	All the meate offrings which ye shall offer vnto the Lord, shalbe made without leauen: for ye shall neither burne leauen nor honie in any offring of the Lord made by fire.
Leviticus 2:12	In the oblation of the first fruits ye shall offer them vnto the Lord, but they shall not be burnt vpon the altar for a sweete sauour.
Leviticus 2:13	(All the meate offrings also shalt thou season with salt, neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the couenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meate offring, but vpon all thine oblations thou shalt offer salt)
Leviticus 2:14	If then thou offer a meate offring of thy first fruites vnto the Lord, thou shalt offer for thy meate offering of thy first fruites eares of corne dryed by the fire, and wheate beaten out of the greene eares.
Leviticus 2:15	After, thou shalt put oyle vpon it, and lay incense thereon: for it is a meate offring.
Leviticus 2:16	And the Priest shall burne the memoriall of it, euen of that that is beaten, and of the oyle of it, with all the incense thereof: for it is an offring vnto the Lord made by fire.
Leviticus 3:1	Also if his oblation be a peace offering, if he will offer of the droue (whether it be male or female) he shall offer such as is without blemish, before the Lord,
Leviticus 3:2	And shall put his hande vpon the head of his offering, and kill it at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation: and Aarons sonnes the Priestes shall sprinkle the blood vpon the altar rounde about.
Leviticus 3:3	So he shall offer part of the peace offerings as a sacrifice made by fire vnto the Lord, euen the fat that couereth the inwardes, and all the fat that is vpon the inwardes.
Leviticus 3:4	He shall also take away the two kidneis, and the fat that is on them, and vpon the flankes, and the kall on the liuer with the kidneis.
Leviticus 3:5	And Aarons sonnes shall burne it on the altar, with the burnt offering, which is vpon the wood, that is on the fire: this is a sacrifice made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 3:6	Also if his oblation be a peace offring vnto the Lord out of ye flocke, whether it be male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
Leviticus 3:7	If he offer a lambe for his oblation, then he shall bring it before the Lord,
Leviticus 3:8	And lay his hand vpon the head of his offring, and shall kill it before the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and Aarons sonnes shall sprinckle the blood thereof round about vpon the altar.
Leviticus 3:9	After, of the peace offrings he shall offer an offring made by fire vnto the Lord: he shall take away the fat therof, and the rump altogether, hard by the backe bone, and the fat that couereth the inwardes, and all the fat that is vpon the inwards.
Leviticus 3:10	Also hee shall take away the two kidneis, with the fat that is vpon them, and vpon the flankes, and the kall vpon the liuer with the kidneis.
Leviticus 3:11	Then the Priest shall burne it vpon the altar, as the meat of an offring made by fire vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 3:12	Also if his offring be a goate, then shall he offer it before the Lord,
Leviticus 3:13	And shall put his hande vpon the head of it, and kill it before the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the sonnes of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood thereof vpon the altar round about.
Leviticus 3:14	Then he shall offer thereof his offring, euen an offring made by fire vnto the Lord, the fat that couereth the inwardes, and all the fatte that is vpon the inwardes.
Leviticus 3:15	Also hee shall take away the two kidneis, and the fat that is vpon them, and vpon ye flankes, and the kall vpon the liuer with the kidneis.
Leviticus 3:16	So the Priest shall burne them vpon the altar, as the meate of an offering made by fire for a sweete sauour: all the fatte is the Lordes.
Leviticus 3:17	This shalbe a perpetual ordinance for your generations, throughout al your dwellings, so that ye shall eate neither fatte nor blood.
Leviticus 4:1	Moreouer the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 4:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, saying, If any shall sinne through ignorance, in any of the commandementes of the Lord, (which ought not to be done) but shall doe contrary to any of them,
Leviticus 4:3	If the Priest that is anointed doe sinne (according to the sinne of the people) then shall he offer, for his sinne which hee hath sinned, a yong bullocke without blemish vnto the Lord for a sinne offring,
Leviticus 4:4	And hee shall bring the bullocke vnto the dore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before the Lord, and shall put his hande vpon the bullocks head, and kill the bullocke before the Lord.
Leviticus 4:5	And the Priest that is anointed shall take of the bullocks blood, and bring it into the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Leviticus 4:6	Then the Priest shall dippe his finger in the blood, and sprinkle of the blood seuen times before the Lord, before the vaile of the Sanctuarie.
Leviticus 4:7	The Priest also shall put some of the blood before the Lord, vpon the hornes of the altar of sweete incense, which is in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, then shall hee powre all the rest of the blood of the bullocke at the foote of the altar of burnt offring, which is at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Leviticus 4:8	And hee shall take away all the fat of the bullocke for the sinne offring: to wit, the fat that couereth the inwardes, and all the fatte that is about the inwardes.
Leviticus 4:9	He shall take away also the two kidneis, and the fat that is vpon them, and vpon the flankes, and the kall vpon the liuer with the kidneis,
Leviticus 4:10	As it was taken away from the bullock of the peace offrings, and the Priest shall burne them vpon the altar of burnt offring.
Leviticus 4:11	But the skinne of the bullocke, and all his flesh, with his heade, and his legs, and his inwardes, and his dung shall he beare out.
Leviticus 4:12	So he shall cary the whole bullocke out of the host vnto a cleane place, where the ashes are powred, and shall burne him on ye wood in the fire: where ye ashes are cast out, shall he be burnt.
Leviticus 4:13	And if the whole Congregation of Israel shall sinne through ignorance, and the thing be hid from the eyes of the multitude, and haue done against any of the commandements of the Lord which should not be done, and haue offended:
Leviticus 4:14	When the sinne which they haue committed shalbe knowen, then the Congregation shall offer a yong bullocke for the sinne, and bring him before the Tabernacle of the Congregation,
Leviticus 4:15	And the Elders of the Congregation shall put their handes vpon the head of the bullocke before the Lord, and he shall kill the bullocke before the Lord.
Leviticus 4:16	Then the Priest that is anointed, shall bring of the bullockes blood into the Tabernacle of the Congregation,
Leviticus 4:17	And the Priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle it seuen times before the Lord, euen before the vaile.
Leviticus 4:18	Also he shall put some of ye blood vpon the hornes of the altar, which is before the Lord, that is in the Tabernacle of the Congregation: then shall he powre all the rest, of the blood at ye foote of the altar of burnt offring, which is at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation,
Leviticus 4:19	And he shall take all his fat from him, and burne it vpon the altar.
Leviticus 4:20	And the Priest shall doe with this bullocke, as he did with the bullocke for his sinne: so shall he do with this: so the Priest shall make an atonement for them, and it shalbe forgiuen them.
Leviticus 4:21	For he shall carie the bullocke without the hoste, and burne him as he burned the first bullock: for it is an offring for the sinne of the Congregation.
Leviticus 4:22	When a ruler shall sinne, and do through ignorance against any of the commandements of the Lord his God, which should not be done, and shall offend,
Leviticus 4:23	If one shewe vnto him his sinne, which he hath committed, the shall he bring for his offring an hee goat without blemish,
Leviticus 4:24	And shall lay his hand vpon the heade of the he goate, and kill it in the place where he should kill the burnt offring before the Lord: for it is a sinne offring.
Leviticus 4:25	Then the Priest shall take of the blood of the sinne offring with his finger, and put it vpon the hornes of the burnt offring altar, and shall powre the rest of his blood at the foote of the burnt offring altar,
Leviticus 4:26	And shall burne all his fat vpon the altar, as the fat of the peace offring: so the Priest shall make an atonement for him, concerning his sinne, and it shalbe forgiuen him.
Leviticus 4:27	Likewise if any of the people of ye lande shall sinne through ignoraunce in doing against any of the commandements of the Lord, which should not be done, and shall offend,
Leviticus 4:28	If one shewe him his sinne which he hath committed, then he shall bring for his offring, a shee goate without blemish for his sinne which he hath committed,
Leviticus 4:29	And he shall lay his hand vpon the head of the sinne offring, and slay the sinne offring in the place of burnt offring.
Leviticus 4:30	Then the Priest shall take of the blood thereof with his finger, and put it vpon the hornes of the burnt offring altar, and powre all the rest of the blood thereof at the foote of the altar,
Leviticus 4:31	And shall take away all his fat, as the fat of the peace offringes is taken away, and the Priest shall burne it vpon the altar for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord, and the Priest shall make an atonement for him, and it shalbe forgiuen him.
Leviticus 4:32	And if he bring a lambe for his sinne offring, he shall bring a female without blemish,
Leviticus 4:33	And shall lay his hand vpon the head of the sinne offring, and hee shall slay it for a sinne offring in the place where hee shoulde kill the burnt offring.
Leviticus 4:34	Then the Priest shall take of the blood of the sinne offring with his finger, and put it vpon the hornes of the burnt offring altar, and shall powre al the rest of the blood thereof at the foote of the altar.
Leviticus 4:35	And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fatte of the lambe of the peace offrings is taken away: then the Priest shall burne it vpon the altar with the oblations of the Lord made by fire, and the Priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his sinne that he hath committed, and it shalbe forgiuen him.
Leviticus 5:1	Also if any haue sinned, that is, If he haue heard the voyce of an othe, and hee can be a witnes, whether he hath seene or knowen of it, if hee doe not vtter it, he shall beare his iniquitie:
Leviticus 5:2	Either if one touche any vncleane thing, whether it be a carion of an vncleane beast, or a carion of vncleane cattel, or a carion of vncleane creeping things, and is not ware of it, yet he is vncleane, and hath offended:
Leviticus 5:3	Eyther if hee touche any vncleannesse of man (whatsoeuer vncleannes it be, that hee is defiled with) and is not ware of it, and after commeth to the knowledge of it, he hath sinned:
Leviticus 5:4	Either if any sweare and pronounce with his lippes to do euill, or to doe good (whatsoeuer it bee that a man shall pronounce with an othe) and it be hid from him, and after knoweth that he hath offended in one of these poyntes,
Leviticus 5:5	Whe he hath sinned in any of these things, then he shall confesse that he hath sinned therein.
Leviticus 5:6	Therefore shall he bring his trespasse offring vnto the Lord for his sinne which he hath committed, euen a female from ye flocke, be it a lambe or a she goat for a sinne offring, and the Priest shall make an atonement for him, concerning his sinne.
Leviticus 5:7	But if he be not able to bring a sheepe, he shall bring for his trespas which he hath committed, two turtle doues, or two yong pigeons vnto the Lord, one for a sinne offring, and the other for a burnt offring.
Leviticus 5:8	So he shall bring them vnto the Priest, who shall offer the sinne offring first, and wring the necke of it a sunder, but not plucke it cleane off.
Leviticus 5:9	After he shall sprinkle of the blood of the sinne offring vpon the side of the altar, and the rest of the blood shall be shed at the foote of the altar: for it is a sinne offering.
Leviticus 5:10	Also he shall offer the seconde for a burnt offring as the maner is: so shall the Priest make an atonement for him (for his sinne which hee hath committed) and it shalbe forgiuen him.
Leviticus 5:11	But if he be not able to bring two turtle doues, or two yong pigeons, then he that hath sinned, shall bring for his offring, the tenth parte of an Ephah of fine floure for a sinne offring, he shall put none oyle thereto, neither put any incense thereon: for it is a sinne offering.
Leviticus 5:12	Then shall hee bring it to the Priest, and the Priest shall take his handfull of it for the remembrance thereof, and burne it vpon the altar with the offrings of the Lord made by fire: for it is a sinne offring.
Leviticus 5:13	So the Priest shall make an atonement for him, as touching his sinne that he hath committed in one of these poyntes, and it shall bee forgiuen him: and the remnant shalbe the Priests, as the meate offring.
Leviticus 5:14	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 5:15	If any person transgresse and sinne through ignorance by taking away things consecrated vnto the Lord, hee shall then bring for his trespasse offring vnto the Lord a ramme without blemish out of the flocke, worth two shekels of siluer by thy estimation after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, for a trespasse offring.
Leviticus 5:16	So hee shall restore that wherein hee hath offended, in taking away of the holy thing, and shall put the fift part more thereto, and giue it vnto the Priest: so the Priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of ye trespasse offring, and it shalbe forgiuen him.
Leviticus 5:17	Also if any sinne and doe against any of the commandements of the Lord, which ought not to be done, and knowe not and sinne and beare his iniquitie,
Leviticus 5:18	Then shall he bring a ramme without blemishe out of the flocke, in thy estimation worth two shekels for a trespasse offring vnto ye Priest: and the Priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his ignorance wherein he erred, and was not ware: so it shalbe forgiuen him.
Leviticus 5:19	This is the trespasse offring for the trespasse committed against the Lord.
Leviticus 6:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:2	If any sinne and commit a trespasse against the Lord, and denie vnto his neighbour that, which was take him to keepe, or that which was put to him of trust, or doth by robberie, or by violence oppresse his neighbour,
Leviticus 6:3	Or hath found that which was lost, and denieth it, and sweareth falsely, for any of these things that a man doeth, wherein he sinneth:
Leviticus 6:4	When, I say, he thus sinneth and trespasseth, he shall then restore the robbery that he robbed, or the thing taken by violence which hee tooke by force, or the thing which was deliuered him to keepe, or the lost thing which he founde,
Leviticus 6:5	Or for whatsoeuer he hath sworne falsely, he shall both restore it in the whole summe, and shall adde the fift parte more thereto, and giue it vnto him to whome perteyneth, the same day that he offreth for trespasse.
Leviticus 6:6	Also he shall bring for his trespasse vnto the Lord, a ramme without blemish out of the flocke in thy estimation worth two shekels for a trespasse offring vnto the Priest.
Leviticus 6:7	And the Priest shall make an atonement for him before the Lord, and it shall be forgiuen him, whatsoeuer thing he hath done, and trespassed therein.
Leviticus 6:8	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:9	Commaund Aaron and his sonnes, saying, This is the lawe of the burnt offring, (it is the burnt offring because it burneth vpon the altar al the night vnto the morning, and the fire burneth on the altar)
Leviticus 6:10	And the Priest shall put on his linen garment, and shall put on his linen breeches vpon his flesh, and take away the ashes when the fire hath consumed the burnt offring vpon the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.
Leviticus 6:11	After, he shall put off his garments, and put on other raiment, and cary the ashes foorth without the hoste vnto a cleane place.
Leviticus 6:12	But the fire vpon the altar shall burne thereon and neuer be put out: wherefore the Priest shall burne wood on it euery morning, and lay the burnt offering in order vpon it, and he shall burne thereon the fat of the peace offrings.
Leviticus 6:13	The fire shall euer burne vpon the altar, and neuer go out.
Leviticus 6:14	Also this is the lawe of the meate offring, which Aarons sonnes shall offer in the presence of the Lord, before the altar.
Leviticus 6:15	He shall euen take thence his handfull of fine flowre of the meate offring and of the oyle, and all the incense which is vpon the meat offring, and shall burne it vpon the altar for a sweete sauour, as a memoriall therefore vnto the Lord:
Leviticus 6:16	But the rest thereof shall Aaron and his sonnes eate: it shalbe eaten without leauen in the holy place: in the court of the Tabernacle of the Congregation they shall eate it.
Leviticus 6:17	It shall not be baken with leauen: I haue giuen it for their portion of mine offrings made by fire: for it is as the sinne offering and as the trespasse offring.
Leviticus 6:18	All the males among the children of Aaron shall eate of it: It shalbe a statute for euer in your generations concerning the offrings of the Lord, made by fire: whatsoeuer toucheth them shall be holy.
Leviticus 6:19	Agayne the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:20	This is the offering of Aaron and his sonnes, which they shall offer vnto the Lord in the day when he is anointed: the tenth part of an Ephah of fine floure, for a meate offering perpetuall: halfe of it in ye morning, and halfe thereof at night.
Leviticus 6:21	In the frying panne it shalbe made with oyle: thou shalt bring it fryed, and shalt offer the baken pieces of the meate offering for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 6:22	And the Priest that is anointed in his steade, among his sonnes shall offer it: It is the Lordes ordinance for euer, it shall be burnt altogether.
Leviticus 6:23	For euery meate offring of the Priest shall be burnt altogether, it shall not be eaten.
Leviticus 6:24	Furthermore, the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:25	Speake vnto Aaron, and vnto his sonnes, and say, This is the Lawe of the sinne offering, In the place where the burnt offring is killed, shall the sinne offring be killed before the Lord, for it is most holy.
Leviticus 6:26	The Priest that offreth this sinne offring, shall eate it: in the holy place shall it be eaten, in the court of ye Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Leviticus 6:27	Whatsoeuer shall touch the flesh thereof shalbe holy: and when there droppeth of the blood thereof vpon a garment, thou shalt wash that whereon it droppeth in the holy place.
Leviticus 6:28	Also the earthen pot that it is sodden in, shalbe broken, but if it be sodden in a brasen pot, it shall both be scoured and washed with water.
Leviticus 6:29	All the males among the Priestes shall eate thereof, for it is most holy.
Leviticus 6:30	But no sinne offering, whose blood is brought into the Tabernacle of the Congregation to make reconciliation in the holy place, shalbe eaten, but shalbe burnt in the fire.
Leviticus 7:1	Likewise this is the lawe of the trespasse offering, it is most holy.
Leviticus 7:2	In the place where they kill the burnt offering, shall they kill the trespasse offering, and the blood thereof shall he sprinkle rounde about vpon the altar.
Leviticus 7:3	All the fat thereof also shall he offer, the rumpe, and the fat that couereth the inwardes.
Leviticus 7:4	After he shall take away the two kidneis, with the fat that is on them and vpon the flankes, and the kall on the liuer with the kidneis.
Leviticus 7:5	Then the Priest shall burne them vpon the altar, for an offring made by fire vnto the Lord: this is a trespasse offring.
Leviticus 7:6	All the males among the Priestes shall eate thereof, it shalbe eaten in the holy place, for it is most holy.
Leviticus 7:7	As the sinne offring is, so is the trespasse offring, one lawe serueth for both: that wherewith the Priest shall make atonement, shalbe his.
Leviticus 7:8	Also the Priest that offereth any mans burnt offring, shall haue the skinne of the burnt offring which he hath offered.
Leviticus 7:9	And all the meate offring that is baken in the ouen, and that is dressed in the pan, and in the frying pan, shall be the Priestes that offereth it.
Leviticus 7:10	And euery meate offering mingled with oyle, and that is dry, shall pertaine vnto all the sonnes of Aaron, to all alike.
Leviticus 7:11	Furthermore, this is the lawe of the peace offrings, which he shall offer vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 7:12	If he offer it to giue thankes, then he shall offer for his thankes offering, vnleauened cakes mingled with oyle, and vnleauened wafers anointed with oyle, and fine floure fryed with the cakes mingled with oyle.
Leviticus 7:13	He shall offer also his offring with cakes of leauened bread, for his peace offrings, to giue thankes.
Leviticus 7:14	And of all the sacrifice he shall offer one cake for an heaue offering vnto the Lord, and it shalbe the Priestes that sprinckleth the blood of the peace offrings.
Leviticus 7:15	Also the flesh of his peace offerings, for thankesgiuing, shalbe eaten the same day that it is offered: he shall leaue nothing thereof vntill the morning.
Leviticus 7:16	But if the sacrifice of his offring be a vow, or a free offering, it shalbe eaten the same day that he offreth his sacrifice: and so in the morning the residue thereof shalbe eaten.
Leviticus 7:17	But as much of the offered flesh as remaineth vnto the third day, shalbe burnt with fire.
Leviticus 7:18	For if any of the flesh of his peace offrings be eaten in the third day, he shall not be accepted that offereth it, neither shall it be reckoned vnto him, but shalbe an abomination: therefore ye person that eateth of it shall beare his iniquitie.
Leviticus 7:19	The flesh also that toucheth any vncleane thing, shall not be eaten, but burnt with fire: but of this flesh all that be cleane shall eate thereof.
Leviticus 7:20	But if any eate of the flesh of the peace offerings that pertaineth to the Lord, hauing his vncleannesse vpon him, euen the same person shalbe cut off from his people.
Leviticus 7:21	Moreouer, whe any toucheth any vncleane thing, as the vncleannesse of man, or of an vncleane beast, or of any filthie abomination, and eate of the flesh of the peace offrings, which pertaineth vnto the Lord, euen that person shalbe cut off from his people.
Leviticus 7:22	Againe ye Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 7:23	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say, Ye shall eate no fat of beeues, nor of sheepe, nor of goates:
Leviticus 7:24	Yet the fat of the dead beast, and the fat of that, which is torne with beastes, shalbe occupied to any vse, but ye shall not eate of it.
Leviticus 7:25	For whosoeuer eateth the fat of the beast, of the which he shall offer an offering made by fire to the Lord, euen the person that eateth, shalbe cut off from his people.
Leviticus 7:26	Neither shall ye eate any blood, either of foule, or of beast in all your dwellings.
Leviticus 7:27	Euery person that eateth any blood, euen the same person shall be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 7:28	And the Lord talked with Moses, saying,
Leviticus 7:29	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say, Hee that offereth his peace offerings vnto the Lord, shall bring his gifte vnto the Lord of his peace offerings:
Leviticus 7:30	His handes shall bring the offerings of the Lord made by fire: euen the fatte with the breast shall he bring, that the breast may be shaken to and from before the Lord.
Leviticus 7:31	Then the Priest shall burne the fatte vpon the Altar, and the breast shall be Aarons and his sonnes.
Leviticus 7:32	And the right shoulder shall ye giue vnto the Priest for an heaue offering, of your peace offrings.
Leviticus 7:33	The same that offreth the blood of ye peace offrings, and the fatte, among the sonnes of Aaron, shall haue the right shoulder for his parte.
Leviticus 7:34	For the breast shaken to and from, and the shoulder lifted vp, haue I taken of the children of Israel, euen of their peace offrings, and haue giuen them vnto Aaron the Priest and vnto his sonnes by a statute for euer from among the children of Israel.
Leviticus 7:35	This is the anointing of Aaron, and the anointing of his sonnes, concerning the offerings of the Lord made by fire, in the day when he presented them to serue in the Priestes office vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 7:36	The which portions the Lord commanded to giue them in the day that he anointed them from among the children of Israel, by a statute for euer in their generations.
Leviticus 7:37	This is also the lawe of the burnt offring of the meate offring, and of the sinne offring, and of the trespasse offring, and of the consecrations, and of the peace offrings,
Leviticus 7:38	Which the Lord commanded Moses in the mount Sinai, when he commanded the children of Israel to offer their giftes vnto the Lord in the wildernesse of Sinai.
Leviticus 8:1	Afterwarde the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 8:2	Take Aaron and his sonnes with him, and the garments and the anointing oyle, and a bullocke for the sinne offring, and two rammes, and a basket of vnleauened bread,
Leviticus 8:3	And assemble all the company at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Leviticus 8:4	So Moses did as the Lord had commanded him, and the companie was assembled at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Leviticus 8:5	Then Moses said vnto the company, This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded to doe.
Leviticus 8:6	And Moses brought Aaron and his sonnes, and washed them with water,
Leviticus 8:7	And put vpon him the coate, and girded him with a girdle, and clothed him with the robe, and put the Ephod on him, which he girded with the broydred garde of the Ephod, and bounde it vnto him therewith.
Leviticus 8:8	After he put the brest plate thereon, and put in the breast plate the Vrim and the Thummim.
Leviticus 8:9	Also he put the miter vpon his head, and put vpon the miter on the fore front the golden plate, and the holy crowne, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:10	(Nowe Moses had taken the anointing oyle, and anoynted the Tabernacle, and al that was therein, and sanctified them,
Leviticus 8:11	And sprinkled thereof vpon the altar seuen times, and anointed the altar and all his instruments, and the lauer, and his foote, to sanctifie them)
Leviticus 8:12	And he powred of the anointing oyle vpon Aarons head, and anointed him, to sanctifie him.
Leviticus 8:13	After, Moses brought Aarons sonnes, and put coates vpon them, and girded them with girdles, and put bonets vpon their heades, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:14	Then he brought the bullocke for the sinne offring, and Aaron and his sonnes put their handes vpon the head of the bullocke for the sinne offring.
Leviticus 8:15	And Moses slew him, and tooke the blood, which he put vpon the hornes of the Altar roud about with his finger, and purified the altar, and powred the rest of the blood at the foote of ye altar: so he sanctified it, to make reconciliation vpon it.
Leviticus 8:16	Then he tooke all the fatte that was vpon the inwardes, and the kall of the liuer and the two kidneis, with their fat, which Moses burned vpon the Altar.
Leviticus 8:17	But the bullocke and his hide, and his flesh, and his doung, hee burnt with fire without the host as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:18	Also hee brought the ram for the burnt offring, and Aaron and his sonnes put their hands vpon the head of the ramme.
Leviticus 8:19	So Moses killed it, and sprinkled the blood vpon the Altar round about,
Leviticus 8:20	And Moses cut the ram in pieces, and burnt the head with the pieces, and the fat,
Leviticus 8:21	And washed the inwardes and the legges in water: so Moses burnt the ram euery whit vpon ye Altar: for it was a burnt offring for a sweete sauour, which was made by fire vnto the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:22	After, he brought the other ram, the ram of consecrations, and Aaron and his sonnes layed their handes vpon the head of the ram,
Leviticus 8:23	Which Moses slewe, and tooke of the blood of it, and put it vpon the lappe of Aarons right eare, and vpon the thumbe of his right hand, and vpon the great toe of his right foote.
Leviticus 8:24	Then Moses brought Aarons sonnes, and put of the blood on the lap of their right eares, and vpon the thumbes of their right handes, and vpon the great toes of their right feete, and Moses sprinckled the rest of the blood vpon the Altar round about.
Leviticus 8:25	And he tooke the fat and the rumpe and all the fat that was vpon the inwards, and the kall of the liuer, and the two kidneis with their fat, and the right shoulder.
Leviticus 8:26	Also he tooke of ye basket of ye vnleauened bread that was before the Lord, one vnleauened cake and a cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and put them on the fat, and vpon the right shoulder.
Leviticus 8:27	So hee put all in Aarons handes, and in his sonnes handes, and shooke it to and from before the Lord.
Leviticus 8:28	After, Moses tooke the out of their hands, and burnt them vpon the altar for a burnt offring: for these were consecrations for a sweete sauour which were made by fire vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 8:29	Likewise Moses tooke the breast of the ram of consecrations, and shooke it to and from before the Lord: for it was Moses portion, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:30	Also Moses tooke of the anointing oyle, and of the blood which was vpon the Altar, and sprinkled it vpon Aaron, vpon his garments, and vpon his sonnes, and on his sonnes garments with him: so hee sanctified Aaron, his garments, and his sonnes, and his sonnes garments with him.
Leviticus 8:31	Afterward Moses saide vnto Aaron and his sonnes, Seethe the flesh at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and there eate it with the bread that is in the basket of consecrations, as I commanded, saying, Aaron and his sonnes shall eate it,
Leviticus 8:32	But that which remaineth of the flesh and of the bread, shall ye burne with fire.
Leviticus 8:33	And ye shall not depart from the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation seuen dayes, vntill the dayes of your consecrations bee at an ende: for seuen dayes, saide the Lord, shall hee consecrate you,
Leviticus 8:34	As hee hath done this day: so the Lord hath commanded to doe, to make an atonement for you.
Leviticus 8:35	Therefore shall yee abide at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation day and night, seuen dayes, and shall keepe the watch of the Lord, that ye dye not: for so I am commanded.
Leviticus 8:36	So Aaron and his sonnes did all thinges which the Lord had commanded by the hand of Moses.
Leviticus 9:1	And in the eight day Moses called Aaron and his sonnes, and the Elders of Israel:
Leviticus 9:2	Then hee sayde vnto Aaron, Take thee a yong calfe for a sinne offring, and a ram for a burnt offring, both without blemish, and bring them before the Lord.
Leviticus 9:3	And vnto the children of Israel thou shalt speake, saying, Take yee an hee goate for a sinne offring, and a calfe, and a lambe, both of a yeere olde, without blemish for a burnt offring:
Leviticus 9:4	Also a bullock, and a ramme for peace offringes, to offer before the Lord, and a meate offring mingled with oyle: for to day the Lord will appeare vnto you.
Leviticus 9:5	Then they brought that which Moses commanded before the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and all the assembly drewe neere and stood before the Lord.
Leviticus 9:6	(For Moses had sayde, This is the thing, which the Lord commanded that ye should do, and the glory of the Lord shall appeare vnto you)
Leviticus 9:7	Then Moses sayd vnto Aaron, Draw neere to the Altar, and offer thy sinne offering, and thy burnt offring, and make an attonement for thee and for the people: offer also the offring of the people, and make an atonement for them, as the Lord hath commanded.
Leviticus 9:8	Aaron therefore went vnto the Altar, and killed the calfe of the sinne offring, which was for himselfe.
Leviticus 9:9	And the sonnes of Aaron brought ye blood vnto him, and he dipt his finger in the blood, and put it vpon the hornes of the Altar, and powred the rest of the blood at the foote of the Altar.
Leviticus 9:10	But the fat and the kidneis and the kall of the liuer of the sinne offring, he burnt vpon the Altar, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Leviticus 9:11	The flesh also and the hide hee burnt with fire without the hoste.
Leviticus 9:12	After, he slewe the burnt offering, and Aarons sonnes brought vnto him the blood, which he sprinckled round about vpon the Altar.
Leviticus 9:13	Also they brought the burnt offring vnto him with the pieces thereof, and the head, and he burnt them vpon the Altar.
Leviticus 9:14	Likewise he did wash the inwardes and the legs, and burnt them vpon the burnt offring on the Altar.
Leviticus 9:15	Then he offred the peoples offring, and tooke a goate, which was the sinne offring for the people, and slewe it: and offred it for sinne, as the first:
Leviticus 9:16	So he offred the burnt offring, and prepared it, according to the maner.
Leviticus 9:17	He presented also the meate offring, and filled his hand thereof, and beside the burnt sacrifice of the morning he burnt this vpon the Altar.
Leviticus 9:18	He slewe also the bullock, and the ram for the peace offrings, that was for the people, and Arons sonnes brought vnto him the blood, which he sprinkled vpon the Altar round about,
Leviticus 9:19	With the fat of the bullocke, and of the ram, the rumpe, and that which couereth the inwards and the kidneis, and the kall of the liuer.
Leviticus 9:20	So they layed the fat vpon the breasts, and he burnt the fat vpon the Altar.
Leviticus 9:21	But the breastes and the right shoulder Aaron shooke to and from before the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Leviticus 9:22	So Aaron lift vp his hand toward the people, and blessed them, and came downe from offring of the sinne offring, and the burnt offring, and the peace offrings.
Leviticus 9:23	After, Moses and Aaron went into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and came out, and blessed the people, and the glorie of the Lord appeared to all the people.
Leviticus 9:24	And there came a fire out from the Lord and consumed vpon the Altar the burnt offring and the fatte: which when all the people sawe, they gaue thankes, and fell on their faces.
Leviticus 10:1	But Nadab and Abihu, the sonnes of Aaron, tooke either of them his censor, and put fire therein, and put incense thereupon, and offred strange fire before the Lord, which hee had not commanded them.
Leviticus 10:2	Therefore a fire went out from the Lord, and deuoured them: so they dyed before the Lord.
Leviticus 10:3	Then Moses sayde vnto Aaron, This is it that the Lord spake, saying, I will bee sanctified in the that come neere me, and before all the people I will be glorified: but Aaron held his peace.
Leviticus 10:4	And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan the sonnes of Vzziel, the vncle of Aaron, and saide vnto them, Come neere, cary your brethre from before the Sanctuarie out of the hoste.
Leviticus 10:5	Then they went, and caried them in their coates out of the host, as Moses had comaunded.
Leviticus 10:6	After, Moses saide vnto Aaron and vnto Eleazar and Ithamar his sonnes, Vncouer not your heads, neither rent your clothes, least ye dye, and least wrath come vpon all ye people: but let your brethren, all the house of Israel bewayle the burning which the Lord hath kindled.
Leviticus 10:7	And go not yee out from the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, least ye dye: for the anointing oyle of the Lord is vpon you: and they did according to Moses commandement.
Leviticus 10:8	And the Lord spake vnto Aaron, saying,
Leviticus 10:9	Thou shalt not drinke wine nor strong drinke, thou, nor thy sonnes with thee, when yee come into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, lest ye die: this is an ordinance for euer throughout your generations,
Leviticus 10:10	That ye may put difference betweene the holy and the vnholy, and betweene the cleane and the vncleane,
Leviticus 10:11	And that ye may teach the children of Israel all the statutes which the Lord hath commanded them by the hand of Moses.
Leviticus 10:12	Then Moses saide vnto Aaron and vnto Eleazar and to Ithamar his sonnes that were left, Take the meate offring that remaineth of the offrings of the Lord, made by fire, and eate it without leauen beside ye altar: for it is most holy:
Leviticus 10:13	And ye shall eate it in the holy place, because it is thy duetie and thy sonnes duety of the offringes of the Lord made by fire: for so I am commanded.
Leviticus 10:14	Also the shaken breast and the heaue shoulder shall yee eate in a cleane place: thou, and thy sonnes, and thy daughters with thee: for they are giuen as thy duetie and thy sonnes duety, of the peace offringes of the children of Israel.
Leviticus 10:15	The heaue shoulder, and the shaken breast shall they bring with the offringes made by fire of the fat, to shake it to and from before the Lord, and it shalbe thine and thy sonnes with thee by a lawe for euer, as the Lord hath commanded.
Leviticus 10:16	And Moses sought the goate that was offred for sinne, and lo, it was burnt: therefore he was angrie with Eleazar and Ithamar the sonnes of Aaron, which were left aliue, saying,
Leviticus 10:17	Wherfore haue ye not eaten the sinne offring in the holy place, seeing it is most Holie? and God hath giuen it you, to beare the iniquitie of the Congregation, to make an atonement for them before the Lord.
Leviticus 10:18	Beholde, the blood of it was not brought within the holy place: ye should haue eaten it in the holy place, as I commanded.
Leviticus 10:19	And Aaron said vnto Moses, Behold, this day haue they offred their sinne offring, and their burnt offring before the Lord, and such things as thou knowest are come vnto mee: If I had eaten the sinne offring to day, should it haue bene accepted in the sight of the Lord?
Leviticus 10:20	So when Moses heard it, he was content.
Leviticus 11:1	After, the Lord spake vnto Moses and to Aaron, saying vnto them,
Leviticus 11:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say, These are the beastes which yee shall eate, among all the beasts that are on the earth.
Leviticus 11:3	Whatsoeuer parteth the hoofe, and is clouen footed, and cheweth the cudde, among the beastes, that shall ye eate.
Leviticus 11:4	But of them that chewe the cud, or deuide the hoofe onely, of them yee shall not eate: as the camel, because he cheweth the cud, and deuideth not ye hoofe, he shall be vncleane vnto you.
Leviticus 11:5	Likewise the conie, because he cheweth the cud and deuideth not the hoofe, he shall bee vncleane to you.
Leviticus 11:6	Also the hare, because he cheweth the cud, and deuideth not the hoofe, he shalbe vncleane to you.
Leviticus 11:7	And the swine, because he parteth ye hoofe and is clouen footed, but cheweth not the cud, he shalbe vncleane to you.
Leviticus 11:8	Of their flesh shall yee not eate, and their carkeise shall yee not touch: for they shall bee vncleane to you.
Leviticus 11:9	These shall ye eate, of all that are in the waters: whatsoeuer hath finnes and skales in ye waters, in the seas, or in the riuers, them shall ye eate.
Leviticus 11:10	But all that haue not finnes nor skales in the seas, or in the riuers, of all that moueth in the waters, and of al liuing things that are in the waters, they shalbe an abomination vnto you.
Leviticus 11:11	They, I say, shalbe an abomination to you: ye shall not eate of their flesh, but shall abhorre their carkeis.
Leviticus 11:12	Whatsoeuer hath not fins nor skales in the waters, that shalbe abomination vnto you.
Leviticus 11:13	These shall ye haue also in abomination among the foules, they shall not be eaten: for they are an abomination, the eagle, and the goshauke, and the osprey:
Leviticus 11:14	Also the vultur, and the kite after his kinde,
Leviticus 11:15	And all rauens after their kinde:
Leviticus 11:16	The ostrich also, and the night crowe, and the seameaw, and the hauke after his kinde:
Leviticus 11:17	The litle owle also, and the connorant, and the great owle.
Leviticus 11:18	Also the redshanke and the pelicane, and the swanne:
Leviticus 11:19	The storke also, the heron after his kinde, and the lapwing, and the backe:
Leviticus 11:20	Also euery foule that creepeth and goeth vpon all foure, such shalbe an abomination vnto you.
Leviticus 11:21	Yet these shall ye eate: of euery foule that creepeth, and goeth vpon all foure which haue their feete and legs all of one to leape withal vpon the earth,
Leviticus 11:22	Of them ye shall eate these, the grashopper after his kinde, and the solean after his kinde, the hargol after his kinde, and the hagab after his kind.
Leviticus 11:23	But al other foules that creepe and haue foure feete, they shalbe abomination vnto you.
Leviticus 11:24	For by such ye shalbe polluted: whosoeuer toucheth their carkeis, shalbe vncleane vnto the euening.
Leviticus 11:25	Whosoeuer also beareth of their carkeis, shall wash his clothes, and be vncleane vntil euen.
Leviticus 11:26	Euery beast that hath clawes deuided, and is not clouen footed, nor cheweth the cud, such shalbe vncleane vnto you: euery one that toucheth them, shalbe vncleane.
Leviticus 11:27	And whatsoeuer goeth vpon his pawes among all maner beastes that goeth on all foure, such shalbe vncleane vnto you: who so doth touch their carkeis shalbe vncleane vntil the euen.
Leviticus 11:28	And he that beareth their carkeis, shall wash his clothes, and be vncleane vntill the euen: for such shalbe vncleane vnto you.
Leviticus 11:29	Also these shalbe vncleane to you amog the things that creepe and moue vpon the earth, the weasell, and the mouse, and the frog, after his kinde:
Leviticus 11:30	Also the rat, and the lizard, and the chameleon, and the stellio, and the molle.
Leviticus 11:31	These shall be vncleane to you among all that creepe: whosoeuer doeth touch them when they be dead, shalbe vncleane vntil the euen.
Leviticus 11:32	Also whatsoeuer any of the dead carkeises of them doth fall vpon, shalbe vncleane, whether it be vessel of wood, or rayment, or skinne, or sacke: whatsoeuer vessel it be that is occupied, it shalbe put in the water as vncleane vntil the euen, and so be purified.
Leviticus 11:33	But euery earthen vessel, whereinto any of them falleth, whatsoeuer is within it shalbe vncleane, and ye shall breake it.
Leviticus 11:34	Al meate also that shalbe eaten, if any such water come vpon it, shalbe vncleane: and all drinke that shalbe drunke in al such vessels shalbe vncleane.
Leviticus 11:35	And euery thing that their carkeis fall vpon, shalbe vncleane: the fornais or the pot shalbe broken: for they are vncleane, and shalbe vncleane vnto you.
Leviticus 11:36	Yet the fountaines and welles where there is plentie of water shalbe cleane: but that which toucheth their carkeises shalbe vncleane.
Leviticus 11:37	And if there fal of their dead carkeis vpon any seede, which vseth to be sowe, it shalbe cleane.
Leviticus 11:38	But if any water be powred vpon ye seede, and there fal of their dead carkeis thereon, it shall be vncleane vnto you.
Leviticus 11:39	If also any beast, whereof ye may eate, die, he that toucheth the carkeis thereof shall be vncleane vntil the euen.
Leviticus 11:40	And he that eateth of the carkeis of it, shall wash his clothes and be vncleane vntil the euen: he also that beareth the carkeis of it, shall wash his clothes, and be vncleane vntil the euen.
Leviticus 11:41	Euery creeping thing therefore that creepeth vpon the earth shalbe an abomination, and not be eaten.
Leviticus 11:42	Whatsoeuer goeth vpon the breast, and whatsoeuer goeth vpon al foure, or that hath many feete among all creeping thinges that creepe vpon the earth, ye shall not eate of them, for they shalbe abomination.
Leviticus 11:43	Ye shall not pollute your selues with any thing that creepeth, neither make your selues vncleane with them, neither defile your selues thereby: ye shall not, I say, be defiled by them,
Leviticus 11:44	For I am the Lord your God: be sanctified therefore, and be holy, for I am holy, and defile not your selues with any creeping thing, that creepeth vpon the earth.
Leviticus 11:45	For I am the Lord that brought you out of the lande of Egypt, to be your God, and that you should be holy, for I am holy.
Leviticus 11:46	This is the law of beasts, and of foules, and of euery liuing thing that moueth in the waters, and of euery thing that creepeth vpon the earth:
Leviticus 11:47	That there may be a difference betweene the vncleane and cleane, and betweene the beast that may be eaten, and the beast that ought not to be eaten.
Leviticus 12:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 12:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say, When a woman hath brought forth seede, and borne a manchilde, shee shalbe vncleane seuen dayes, like as she is vncleane when she is put apart for her disease.
Leviticus 12:3	(And in the eight day, the foreskin of the childes flesh shalbe circumcised)
Leviticus 12:4	And she shall continue in the blood of her purifying three and thirtie dayes: she shall touch no halowed thing, nor come into the Sanctuarie, vntil the time of her purifying be out.
Leviticus 12:5	But if she beare a mayde childe, then shee shalbe vncleane two weekes, as when shee hath her disease: and she shall continue in the blood of her purifying three score and sixe dayes.
Leviticus 12:6	Nowe when the dayes of her purifying are out, (whether it be for a sonne or for a daughter) shee shall bring to the Priest a lambe of one yeere olde for a burnt offering, and a yong pigeon or a turtle doue for a sinne offring, vnto the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation,
Leviticus 12:7	Who shall offer it before the Lord, and make an atonement for her: so she shalbe purged of the issue of her blood this is the law for her that hath borne a male or female.
Leviticus 12:8	But if she bee not able to bring a lambe, she shall bring two turtles, or two yong pigeons: the one for a burnt offring, and the other for a sinne offring: and the Priest shall make an atonement for her: so she shall be cleane.
Leviticus 13:1	Moreouer the Lord spake vnto Moses, and to Aaron, saying,
Leviticus 13:2	The man that shall haue in the skin of his flesh a swelling or a skab, or a white spot, so that in the skinne of his flesh it be like the plague of leprosie, then he shalbe brought vnto Aaron the Priest, or vnto one of his sonnes the Priestes,
Leviticus 13:3	And the Priest shall looke on the sore in the skinne of his flesh: if the heare in the sore be turned into white, and the sore seeme to be lower then the skinne of his flesh, it is a plague of leprosie. therefore the Priest shall looke on him, and pronounce him vncleane:
Leviticus 13:4	But if the white spot be in the skinne of his flesh, and seeme not to bee lower then the skin, nor the heare thereof be turned vnto white, then the Priest shall shut vp him that hath the plague, seuen dayes.
Leviticus 13:5	After, the Priest shall looke vpon him the seuenth day: and if the plague seeme to him to abide still, and the plague growe not in the skin, the Priest shall shut him vp yet seuen dayes more.
Leviticus 13:6	Then the Priest shall looke on him againe the seuenth day, and if the plague be darke, and the sore grow not in the skinne, then the Priest shall pronounce him cleane, for it is a skab: therefore he shall washe his clothes and be cleane.
Leviticus 13:7	But if the skab growe more in the skinne, after that he is seene of ye Priest for to be purged, he shall be seene of the Priest yet againe.
Leviticus 13:8	Then the Priest shall consider, and if the skab growe in the skin, then the Priest shall pronounce him vncleane: for it is leprosie.
Leviticus 13:9	When the plague of leprosie is in a man, he shalbe brought vnto the Priest,
Leviticus 13:10	And the Priest shall see him: and if the swelling be white in ye skin, and haue made ye heare white, and there be rawe flesh in the swelling,
Leviticus 13:11	It is an old leprosie in the skin of his flesh: and the Priest shall pronounce him vncleane, and shall not shut him vp, for he is vncleane.
Leviticus 13:12	Also if the leprosie breake out in the skin, and the leprosie couer all the skin of the plague, from his head euen to his feete, wheresoeuer the Priest looketh,
Leviticus 13:13	Then the Priest shall consider: and if the leprosie couer all his flesh, he shall pronounce the plague to bee cleane, because it is all turned into whitenesse: so he shalbe cleane.
Leviticus 13:14	But if there be raw flesh on him when he is seene, he shalbe vncleane.
Leviticus 13:15	For the Priest shall see the rawe flesh, and declare him to be vncleane: for the rawe flesh is vncleane, therefore it is the leprosie.
Leviticus 13:16	Or if the rawe flesh change and be turned into white, then he shall come to the Priest,
Leviticus 13:17	And the Priest shall beholde him and if the sore be changed into white, then the Priest shall pronounce the plague cleane, for it is cleane.
Leviticus 13:18	The flesh also in whose skin there is a bile and is healed,
Leviticus 13:19	And in ye place of the bile there be a white swelling, or a white spot somewhat reddish, it shall be seene of the Priest.
Leviticus 13:20	And when the Priest seeth it, if it appeare lower then the skinne, and the heare thereof bee changed into white, ye Priest then shall pronounce him vncleane: for it is a plague of leprosie, broken out in the bile.
Leviticus 13:21	But if the Priest looke on it, and there be no white heares therein, and if it bee not lower then the skin, but be darker, then the Priest shall shut him vp seuen dayes.
Leviticus 13:22	And if it spred abroad in the flesh, ye Priest shall pronounce him vncleane, for it is a sore.
Leviticus 13:23	But if the spot continue in his place, and growe not, it is a burning bile: therefore the Priest shall declare him to be cleane.
Leviticus 13:24	If there be any flesh, in whose skin there is an hote burning, and the quick flesh of ye burning haue a white spot, somewhat reddish or pale,
Leviticus 13:25	Then the Priest shall looke vpon it: and if the heare in that spot be changed into white, and it appeare lower then the skin, it is a leprosie broken out in the burning therefore the Priest shall pronounce him vncleane: for it is the plague of leprosie.
Leviticus 13:26	But if the Priest looke on it, and there be no white heare in the spot, and be no lower then the other skinne, but be darker, then the Priest shall shut him vp seuen dayes.
Leviticus 13:27	After, the Priest shall looke on him the seuenth day: if it be growen abroad in the skinne, then the Priest shall pronounce him vncleane: for it is the plague of leprosie.
Leviticus 13:28	And if the spot abide in his place, not growing in the skin, but is darke, it is a rising of the burning: the Priest shall therefore declare him cleane, for it is the drying vp of the burning.
Leviticus 13:29	If also a man or woman hath a sore on the head or in the beard,
Leviticus 13:30	Then the Priest shall see his sore: and if it appeare lower then the skin, and there be in it a small yellow haire, then the Priest shall pronouce him vncleane: for it is a blacke spot, and leprosie of the head or of the beard.
Leviticus 13:31	And if the Priest looke on the sore of the blacke spotte, and if it seeme not lower then the skinne, nor haue any blacke heare in it, then the Priest shall shut vp him, that hath the sore of the blacke spot, seuen dayes.
Leviticus 13:32	After, in the seuenth day the Priest shall looke on the sore: and if the blacke spot growe not, and there be in it no yelowe heare, and the blacke spot seeme not lower then the skinne,
Leviticus 13:33	Then he shalbe shauen, but the place of the blacke spot shall he not shaue: but the Priest shall shut vp him, that hath the blacke spot, seuen dayes more.
Leviticus 13:34	And the seuenth day the Priest shall looke on the blacke spot: and if the blacke spot growe not in the skinne, nor seeme lower then the other skinne, then the Priest shall clense him, and hee shall wash his clothes, and be cleane.
Leviticus 13:35	But if the blacke spot growe abroad in the flesh after his clensing,
Leviticus 13:36	Then the Priest shall looke on it: and if the blacke spot grow in the skin, the Priest shall not seeke for the yelowe heare: for he is vncleane.
Leviticus 13:37	But if ye blacke spot seeme to him to abide, and that blacke heare growe therein, the blacke spot is healed, he is cleane, and the Priest shall declare him to be cleane.
Leviticus 13:38	Furthermore if there bee many white spots in the skin of the flesh of man or woman,
Leviticus 13:39	Then the Priest shall consider: and if the spots in the skin of their flesh be somewhat darke and white withall, it is but a white spot broken out in the skin: therefore he is cleane.
Leviticus 13:40	And the man whose heare is fallen off his head, and is balde, is cleane.
Leviticus 13:41	And if his head lose the heare on the forepart, and be balde before, he is cleane.
Leviticus 13:42	But if there be in the balde head, or in the balde forehead a white reddish sore, it is a leprosie springing in his balde head, or in his balde forehead.
Leviticus 13:43	Therefore the Priest shall looke vpon it, and if the rising of the sore bee white reddish in his balde head, or in his bald forehead, appearing like leprosie in the skin of the flesh,
Leviticus 13:44	He is a leper and vncleane: therefore the Priest shall pronounce him altogether vncleane: for the sore is in his head.
Leviticus 13:45	The leper also in whom the plague is, shall haue his clothes rent, and his head bare, and shall put a couering vpon his lips, and shall cry, I am vncleane, I am vncleane.
Leviticus 13:46	As long as the disease shall be vpon him, he shalbe polluted, for he is vncleane: he shall dwell alone, without the campe shall his habitation be.
Leviticus 13:47	Also the garment that the plague of leprosie is in, whether it be a wollen garment or a linen garment,
Leviticus 13:48	Whether it bee in the warpe or in ye woofe of linen or of wollen, either in a skin, or in any thing made of skin,
Leviticus 13:49	And if the sore be greene or somewhat reddish in the garment or in ye skin, or in the warpe, or in the woofe, or in any thing that is made of skin, it is a plague of leprosie and shalbe shewed vnto the Priest.
Leviticus 13:50	Then the Priest shall see the plague, and shut vp it that hath the plague, seuen dayes,
Leviticus 13:51	And shall looke on the plague the seuenth day: if the plague growe in the garment or in the warpe, or in the woofe, or in the skinne, or in any thing that is made of skin, that plague is a fretting leprosie and vncleane.
Leviticus 13:52	And hee shall burne the garment, or the warpe, or the woofe, whether it bee wollen or linen, or any thing that is made of skin, wherein the plague is: for it is a freating leprosie, therefore it shalbe burnt in the fire.
Leviticus 13:53	If the Priest yet see that the plague grow not in the garment, or in the woofe, or in whatsoeuer thing of skin it be,
Leviticus 13:54	Then the Priest shall commaund them to wash the thing wherein the plague is, and he shall shut it vp seuen dayes more.
Leviticus 13:55	Againe ye Priest shall looke on the plague, after it is washed: and if the plague haue not changed his colour, though the plague haue spred no further, it is vncleane: thou shalt burne it in the fire, for it is a fret inwarde, whether the spot bee in the bare place of the whole, or in part thereof.
Leviticus 13:56	And if the Priest see that the plague bee darker, after that it is washed, he shall cut it out of the garment, or out of the skin, or out of the warpe, or out of the woofe.
Leviticus 13:57	And if it appeare stil in ye garment or in the warpe, or in the woofe, or in any thing made of skin, it is a spreading leprie: thou shalt burne the thing wherein the plague is, in the fire.
Leviticus 13:58	If thou hast washed ye garment or ye warpe, or ye woofe, or whatsouer thing of skin it be, if the plague be departed therefrom, then shall it be washed the second time, and be cleane.
Leviticus 13:59	This is the lawe of the plague of leprosie in a garment of wollen or linnen, or in the warpe, or in the woofe, or in any thing of skin, to make it cleane or vncleane.
Leviticus 14:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 14:2	This is the law of the leper in the day of his clensing: that is, he shall be brought vnto the Priest,
Leviticus 14:3	And the Priest shall go out of the campe, and the Priest shall consider him: and if the plague of leprosie be healed in the leper,
Leviticus 14:4	Then shall the Priest commaund to take for him that is clensed, two sparrowes aliue and cleane, and cedar wood and a skarlet lace, and hyssope.
Leviticus 14:5	And the Priest shall commaund to kill one of the birdes ouer pure water in an earthen vessell.
Leviticus 14:6	After, he shall take the liue sparowe with the cedar wood, and the skarlet lace, and the hyssope, and shall dip them and the liuing sparowe in the blood of the sparowe slaine, ouer the pure water,
Leviticus 14:7	And hee shall sprinkle vpon him, that must be clensed of his leprosie, seuen times, and clense him, and shall let goe the liue sparowe into the broad fielde.
Leviticus 14:8	Then he that shall be clensed, shall wash his clothes, and shaue off all his heare, and wash himselfe in water, so he shalbe cleane: after that shall he come into the host, but shall tary without his tent seuen dayes.
Leviticus 14:9	So in the seuenth day hee shall shaue off all his heare, both his head, and his beard, and his eye browes: euen all his heare shall he shaue, and shall wash his clothes and shall wash his flesh in water: so he shalbe cleane.
Leviticus 14:10	Then in the eight day he shall take two hee lambes without blemish, and an ewe lambe of a yere olde without blemish, and three tenth deales of fine flower for a meate offering, mingled with oyle, and a pint of oyle.
Leviticus 14:11	And the Priest that maketh him cleane shall bring the man which is to bee made cleane, and those things, before the Lord, at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Leviticus 14:12	Then the Priest shall take one lambe, and offer him for a trespasse offering, and the pint of oyle, and shake the to and from before the Lord.
Leviticus 14:13	And hee shall kill the lambe in the place where the sinne offring and the burnt offring are slaine, euen in the holy place: for as the sinne offring is the Priests, so is the trespasse offring: for it is most holy.
Leviticus 14:14	So the Priest shall take of the blood of the trespasse offring, and put it vpon the lappe of the right eare of him that shalbe clensed, and vpon the thumbe of his right hand, and vpon the great toe of his right foote.
Leviticus 14:15	The Priest shall also take of ye pint of oyle, and powre it into the palme of his left hand,
Leviticus 14:16	And the Priest shall dip his right finger in the oyle that is in his left hand, and sprinkle of the oyle with his finger seuen times before the Lord.
Leviticus 14:17	And of the rest of the oyle that is in his hand, shall the Priest put vpon the lap of the right eare of him that is to bee clensed, and vpon the thumbe of his right hand, and vpon the great toe of his right foote, where the blood of the trespasse offring was put.
Leviticus 14:18	But the remnant of the oyle that is in the Priests hand, he shall powre vpon the head of him that is to be clensed: so the Priest shall make an atonement for him before the Lord.
Leviticus 14:19	And the Priest shall offer the sinne offring and make an atonement for him that is to bee clensed of his vncleannesse: then after shall he kill the burnt offring.
Leviticus 14:20	So the Priest shall offer ye burnt offring and the meat offring vpon ye altar and the Priest shall make an atonement for him: so he shalbe cleane.
Leviticus 14:21	But if he be poore, and not able, then he shall bring one lambe for a trespasse offring to be shaken, for his reconciliation, and a tenth deale of fine flower mingled with oyle, for a meate offring, with a pinte of oyle.
Leviticus 14:22	Also two turtle doues, or two yong pigeons, as he is able, whereof the one shalbe a sinne offering, and the other a burnt offring,
Leviticus 14:23	And he shall bring them the eight day for his clensing vnto the Priest at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation before ye Lord.
Leviticus 14:24	The the Priest shall take the lambe of the trespasse offring, and the pint of oyle, and the Priest shall shake them to and from before the Lord.
Leviticus 14:25	And he shall kill the lambe of the trespasse offering, and the Priest shall take of the blood of the trespasse offring, and put it vpon the lap of his right eare that is to be clensed, and vpon ye thumbe of his right hande, and vpon the great toe of his right foote.
Leviticus 14:26	Also the Priest shall powre of the oyle into the palme of his owne left hand.
Leviticus 14:27	So ye Priest shall with his right finger sprinkle of the oyle that is in his left hand, seuen times before the Lord.
Leviticus 14:28	Then the Priest shall put of the oyle that is in his hande, vpon the lap of the right eare of him that is to bee clensed, and vpon the thumbe of his right hande, and vpon the great toe of his right foote: vpon the place of the blood of the trespasse offring.
Leviticus 14:29	But ye rest of the oyle that is in the Priests hand, he shall put vpon the head of him that is to be clensed, to make an atonement for him before the Lord.
Leviticus 14:30	Also hee shall present one of the turtle doues, or of the yong pigeons, as he is able:
Leviticus 14:31	Such, I say, as he is able, the one for a sinne offring, and the other for a burnt offring with the meate offring: so the Priest shall make an atonement for him that is to bee clensed before the Lord.
Leviticus 14:32	This is the lawe of him which hath the plague of leprosie, who is not able in his clensing to offer the whole.
Leviticus 14:33	The Lord also spake vnto Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Leviticus 14:34	When ye be come vnto the land of Canaan which I giue you in possession, if I sende the plague of leprosie in an house of the land of your possession,
Leviticus 14:35	Then he that oweth the house, shall come and tell the Priest, saying, Me thinke there is like a plague of leprosie in the house.
Leviticus 14:36	Then the Priest shall commande them to emptie the house before the Priest goe into it to see the plague, that all that is in the house be not made vncleane, and then shall the Priest goe in to see the house,
Leviticus 14:37	And hee shall marke the plague: and if the plague be in the walles of the house, and that there be deepe spots, greenish or reddish, which seeme to be lower then the wall,
Leviticus 14:38	Then the Priest shall goe out of the house to the doore of the house, and shall cause to shut vp the house seuen dayes.
Leviticus 14:39	So the Priest shall come againe ye seuenth day: and if he see that the plague bee increased in the walles of the house,
Leviticus 14:40	Then the Priest shall commande them to take away the stones wherein the plague is, and they shall cast them into a foule place without the citie.
Leviticus 14:41	Also hee shall cause to scrape the house within rounde about, and powre the dust, that they haue pared off, without the citie in an vncleane place.
Leviticus 14:42	And they shall take other stones, and put them in the places of those stones, and shall take other mortar, to plaister the house with.
Leviticus 14:43	But if the plague come againe and breake out in the house, after that he hath taken away ye stones, and after that hee hath scraped and playstered the house,
Leviticus 14:44	Then the Priest shall come and see: and if the plague growe in the house, it is a freating leprosie in the house: it is therefore vncleane.
Leviticus 14:45	And hee shall breake downe the house, with the stones of it, and the timber thereof, and all the mortar of the house, and hee shall carie them out of the citie vnto an vncleane place.
Leviticus 14:46	Moreouer he that goeth into the house all the while that it is shut vp, hee shall bee vncleane vntill the euen.
Leviticus 14:47	Hee also that sleepeth in the house shall wash his clothes: he likewise that eateth in the house, shall wash his clothes.
Leviticus 14:48	But if the Priest shall come and see, that the plague hath spread no further in the house, after the house be plaistered, the Priest shall pronounce that house cleane, for the plague is healed.
Leviticus 14:49	Then shall he take to purifie the house, two sparrowes, and cedar wood, and skarlet lace, and hyssope.
Leviticus 14:50	And hee shall kill one sparowe ouer pure water in an earthen vessell,
Leviticus 14:51	And shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssope, and the skarlet lace with the liue Sparrow, and dip them in the blood of the slayne Sparrow, and in the pure water, and sprinkle the house seuen times:
Leviticus 14:52	So shall hee clense the house with ye blood of the sparowe, and with the pure water, and with the liue sparowe, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssope, and with the skarlet lace.
Leviticus 14:53	Afterwarde he shall let go the liue sparowe out of the towne into the broad fieldes: so shall he make atonement for the house, and it shall be cleane.
Leviticus 14:54	This is the law for euery plague of leprosie and blacke spot,
Leviticus 14:55	And of the leprosie of the garment, and of the house,
Leviticus 14:56	And of the swelling, and of the skab, and of the white spot.
Leviticus 14:57	This is the lawe of the leprosie to teache when a thing is vncleane, and when it is cleane.
Leviticus 15:1	Moreouer the Lord spake vnto Moses, and to Aaron, saying,
Leviticus 15:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, Whosoeuer hath an issue from his flesh, is vncleane, because of his issue.
Leviticus 15:3	And this shalbe his vncleannes in his issue: when his flesh auoydeth his issue, or if his flesh be stopped from his issue, this is his vncleannes.
Leviticus 15:4	Euery bed whereon he lyeth that hath the issue, shall be vncleane, and euery thing whereon he sitteth, shalbe vncleane.
Leviticus 15:5	Whosoeuer also toucheth his bed, shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and shall be vncleane vntill the euen.
Leviticus 15:6	And he that sitteth on any thing, whereon he sate that hath the issue, shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vntill the euen.
Leviticus 15:7	Also he that toucheth the flesh of him that hath the issue, shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vntil the euen.
Leviticus 15:8	If he also, that hath the issue, spit vpon him that is cleane, he shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vntill the euen.
Leviticus 15:9	And what saddle soeuer he rideth vpon, that hath the issue, shalbe vncleane,
Leviticus 15:10	And whosoeuer toucheth any thing that was vnder him, shall be vncleane vnto the euen: and he that beareth those things, shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and shall be vncleane vntill the euen.
Leviticus 15:11	Likewise whomesoeuer hee toucheth that hath the issue (and hath not washed his handes in water) shall wash his clothes and wash himselfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vntill the euen.
Leviticus 15:12	And the vessel of earth that he toucheth, which hath the issue, shalbe broken: and euery vessel of wood shalbe rinsed in water.
Leviticus 15:13	But if he that hath an issue, be cleansed of his issue, then shall he count him seuen dayes for his cleansing, and wash his clothes, and wash his flesh in pure water: so shall he be cleane.
Leviticus 15:14	Then the eight day he shall take vnto him two Turtle doues or two yong pigeons, and come before the Lord at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and shall giue them vnto the Priest.
Leviticus 15:15	And the Priest shall make of the one of them a sinne offring, and of the other a burnt offering: so the Priest shall make an atonement for him before the Lord, for his issue.
Leviticus 15:16	Also if any mans issue of seede depart from him, he shall wash all his flesh in water, and be vncleane vntill the euen.
Leviticus 15:17	And euery garment, and euery skinne whereupon shalbe issue of seede, shall be euen washed with water, and be vncleane vnto the euen.
Leviticus 15:18	If he that hath an issue of seede, do lie with a woman, they shall both wash themselues with water, and be vncleane vntill the euen.
Leviticus 15:19	Also when a woman shall haue an issue, and her issue in her flesh shalbe blood, she shalbe put apart seuen dayes: and whosoeuer toucheth her, shalbe vncleane vnto the euen.
Leviticus 15:20	And whatsoeuer she lieth vpon in her separation, shalbe vncleane, and euery thing that she sitteth vpon, shalbe vncleane.
Leviticus 15:21	Whosoeuer also toucheth her bedde, shall wash his clothes, and wash himselfe with water, and shalbe vncleane vnto the euen.
Leviticus 15:22	And whosoeuer toucheth any thing that she sate vpon, shall wash his clothes, and wash him selfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vnto the euen:
Leviticus 15:23	So that whether he touche her bed, or any thing whereon shee hath sit, he shalbe vncleane vnto the euen.
Leviticus 15:24	And if a man lye with her, and the flowers of her separation touch him, he shalbe vncleane seuen dayes, and all the whole bed whereon he lieth, shalbe vncleane.
Leviticus 15:25	Also when a womans issue of blood runneth long time besides the time of her floures, or when she hath an issue, longer then her floures, all the dayes of the issue of her vncleannesse shee shalbe vncleane, as in the time of her floures.
Leviticus 15:26	Euery bed whereon shee lyeth (as long as her issue lasteth) shalbe to her as her bed of her separation: and whatsoeuer she sitteth vpon, shalbe vncleane, as her vncleannes whe she is put apart.
Leviticus 15:27	And whosoeuer toucheth these things, shall be vncleane, and shall wash his clothes, and wash him selfe in water, and shalbe vncleane vnto the euen.
Leviticus 15:28	But if she be clensed of her issue, then shee shall count her seuen dayes, and after, shee shall be cleane.
Leviticus 15:29	And in the eight day shee shall take vnto her two Turtles or two yong pigeons, and bring them vnto the Priest at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Leviticus 15:30	And the Priest shall make of ye one a sinne offring, and of the other a burnt offring, and the Priest shall make an atonement for her before the Lord, for the issue of her vncleannes.
Leviticus 15:31	Thus shall yee separate the children of Israel from their vncleannes, that they dye not in their vncleannesse, if they defile my Tabernacle that is among them.
Leviticus 15:32	This is the lawe of him that hath an issue, and of him from whome goeth an issue of seede whereby he is defiled:
Leviticus 15:33	Also of her that is sicke of her floures, and of him that hath a running issue, whether it bee man or woman, and of him that lyeth with her which is vncleane.
Leviticus 16:1	Fvrthermore the Lord spake vnto Moses, after the death of the two sonnes of Aaron, whe they came to offer before the Lord, and dyed:
Leviticus 16:2	And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, Speake vnto Aaron thy brother, that he come not at all times into the Holy place within the vayle, before the Merciseate, which is vpon the Arke, that he dye not: for I wil appeare in the cloude vpon the Merciseate.
Leviticus 16:3	After this sort shall Aaron come into the Holy place: euen with a yong bullocke for a sinne offring, and a ramme for a burnt offring.
Leviticus 16:4	He shall put on the holy linnen coate, and shall haue linnen breeches vpon his flesh, and shall be girded with a linnen girdle, and shall couer his head with a linnen miter: these are the holy garments: therefore shall hee wash his flesh in water, when he doeth put them on.
Leviticus 16:5	And hee shall take of the Congregation of the children of Israel, two hee goates for a sinne offring, and a ramme for a burnt offring.
Leviticus 16:6	Then Aaron shall offer the bullocke for his sinne offring, and make an atonement for himselfe, and for his house.
Leviticus 16:7	And he shall take the two hee goates, and present them before the Lord at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Leviticus 16:8	Then Aaron shall cast lots ouer the two hee goates: one lot for the Lord, and the other for the Scape goate.
Leviticus 16:9	And Aaron shall offer the goat, vpon which the Lords lot shall fal, and make him a sinne offring.
Leviticus 16:10	But the goate, on which the lot shall fall to be the Scape goate, shalbe presented aliue before the Lord, to make reconciliation by him, and to let him go (as a Scape goate) into the wildernes.
Leviticus 16:11	Thus Aaron shall offer the bullocke for his sinne offring, and make a reconciliation for himselfe, and for his house, and shall kill the bullocke for his sinne offring.
Leviticus 16:12	And he shall take a censer full of burning coles from off the altar before the Lord, and his handfull of sweete incense beaten small, and bring it within the vayle,
Leviticus 16:13	And shall put the incense vpon the fire before the Lord, that the cloude of the incense may couer the Merciseat that is vpon the Testimonie: so he shall not dye.
Leviticus 16:14	And hee shall take of the blood of the bullocke, and sprinkle it with his finger vpon the Merciseat Eastward: and before the Merciseate shall he sprinkle of the blood with his finger seuen times.
Leviticus 16:15	Then shall he kill the goate that is the peoples sinne offring, and bring his blood within the vaile, and doe with that blood, as he did with the blood of the bullocke, and sprinckle it vpon the Merciseate, and before the Merciseate.
Leviticus 16:16	So he shall purge the Holy place from the vncleannes of the children of Israel, and from their trespasses of all their sinnes: so shall he do also for the Tabernacle of the Cogregation placed with them, in the middes of their vncleannesse.
Leviticus 16:17	And there shalbe no man in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, when he goeth in to make an atonement in the Holy place, vntill hee come out, and haue made an atonement for himselfe, and for his housholde, and for all the Congregation of Israel.
Leviticus 16:18	After, he shall goe out vnto the altar that is before the Lord and make a reconciliation vpon it, and shall take of the blood of the bullocke, and of the blood of the goate, and put it vpon the hornes of the Altar round about:
Leviticus 16:19	So shall hee sprinkle of the blood vpon it with his finger seuen times, and clense it, and halowe it from the vncleannes of the children of Israel.
Leviticus 16:20	When he hath made an ende of purging the Holy place, and the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the altar, then he shall bring the liue goate:
Leviticus 16:21	And Aaron shall put both his handes vpon the head of the liue goate, and confesse ouer him al the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their trespasses, in all their sinnes, putting them vpon the head of the goate, and shall sende him away (by the hand of a man appointed) into the wildernes.
Leviticus 16:22	So the goate shall beare vpon him all their iniquities into the land that is not inhabited, and he shall let the goate go into the wildernesse.
Leviticus 16:23	After, Aaron shall come into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and put off the linnen clothes, which he put on when he went into the Holy place, and leaue them there.
Leviticus 16:24	Hee shall wash also his flesh with water in the Holy place, and put on his owne rayment, and come out, and make his burnt offring, and the burnt offring of the people, and make an atonement for himselfe, and for the people.
Leviticus 16:25	Also the fatte of the sinne offring shall he burne vpon the altar.
Leviticus 16:26	And he that caried forth the goat, called the Scape goat, shall wash his clothes, and wash his flesh in water, and after that shall come into the hoste.
Leviticus 16:27	Also the bullocke for the sinne offring, and the goate for the sinne offring (whose blood was brought to make a reconciliation in the Holy place) shall one carie out without the hoste to be burnt in the fire, with their skinnes, and with their flesh, and with their doung.
Leviticus 16:28	And hee that burneth them shall wash his clothes, and wash his flesh in water, and afterward come into the hoste.
Leviticus 16:29	So this shalbe an ordinance for euer vnto you: the tenth day of the seuenth moneth, yee shall humble your soules, and do no worke at all, whether it be one of the same countrey or a strager that soiourneth among you.
Leviticus 16:30	For that day shall ye Priest make an atonement for you to clense you: ye shalbe cleane from all your sinnes before the Lord.
Leviticus 16:31	This shall be a Sabbath of rest vnto you, and ye shall humble your soules, by an ordinance for euer.
Leviticus 16:32	And the Priest whom he shall anoynt, and whom he shall cosecrate (to minister in his fathers steade) shall make the atonement, and shall put on the linnen clothes and Holy vestments,
Leviticus 16:33	And shall purge the Holy Sanctuarie and the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and shall clense the altar, and make an atonement for the Priests and for all the people of the Congregation.
Leviticus 16:34	And this shalbe an euerlasting ordinance vnto you, to make an atonement for the children of Israel for all their sinnes once a yeere: and as the Lord commanded Moses, he did.
Leviticus 17:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 17:2	Speake vnto Aaron, and to his sonnes, and to all the children of Israel, and say vnto them, This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded, saying,
Leviticus 17:3	Whosoeuer he be of the house of Israel that killeth a bullocke, or lambe, or goate in the hoste, or that killeth it out of the hoste,
Leviticus 17:4	And bringeth it not vnto the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation to offer an offring vnto the Lord before the Tabernacle of the Lord, blood shalbe imputed vnto that man: he hath shed blood, wherefore that man shall be cut off from among his people.
Leviticus 17:5	Therefore the children of Israel shall bring their offrings, which they would offer abroad in the fielde, and present the vnto ye Lord at the doore of the Tabernacle of ye Congregation by ye Priest, and offer them for peace offrings vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 17:6	Then the Priest shall sprinkle the blood vpon the Altar of the Lord before the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and burne the fat for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 17:7	And they shall no more offer their offerings vnto deuils, after whom they haue gone a whoring: this shalbe an ordinance for euer vnto them in their generations.
Leviticus 17:8	Also thou shalt say vnto them, whosoeuer he be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers which soiourne among them, that offreth a burnt offring or sacrifice,
Leviticus 17:9	And bringeth it not vnto ye doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation to offer it vnto the Lord, euen that man shall be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 17:10	Likewise whosoeuer he be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that soiourne among them, that eateth any blood, I will euen set my face against that person that eateth blood, and will cut him off from among his people.
Leviticus 17:11	For the life of the flesh is in the blood, and I haue giuen it vnto you to offer vpon the altar, to make an atonement for your soules: for this blood shall make an atonement for the soule.
Leviticus 17:12	Therefore I saide vnto ye children of Israel, None of you shall eate blood: neither the stranger that soiourneth among you, shall eate blood.
Leviticus 17:13	Moreouer whosoeuer he be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that soiourne among the, which by hunting taketh any beast or foule that may be eaten, he shall powre out the blood thereof, and couer it with dust:
Leviticus 17:14	For ye life of all flesh is his blood, it is ioyned with his life: therefore I sayd vnto the children of Israel, Ye shall eate the blood of no flesh: for the life of al flesh is the blood thereof: whosoeuer eateth it, shalbe cut off.
Leviticus 17:15	And euery person that eateth it which dyeth alone, or that which is torne with beastes, whether it be one of the same countrey or a stranger, he shall both wash his clothes, and wash himselfe in water, and be vncleane vnto the euen: after he shalbe cleane.
Leviticus 17:16	But if he wash them not, nor wash his flesh, then he shall beare his iniquitie.
Leviticus 18:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 18:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 18:3	After ye doings of the land of Egypt, wherin ye dwelt, shall ye not doe: and after the maner of the land of Canaan, whither I will bring you, shall ye not do, neither walke in their ordinances,
Leviticus 18:4	But do after my iudgements, and keepe mine ordinances, to walke therein: I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 18:5	Ye shall keepe therefore my statutes, and my iudgements, which if a man doe, he shall then liue in them: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 18:6	None shall come neere to any of ye kinred of his flesh to vncouer her shame: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 18:7	Thou shalt not vncouer the shame of thy father, nor the shame of thy mother: for she is thy mother, thou shalt not discouer her shame.
Leviticus 18:8	The shame of thy fathers wife shalt thou not discouer: for it is thy fathers shame.
Leviticus 18:9	Thou shalt not discouer the shame of thy sister the daughter of thy father, or the daughter of thy mother, whether shee bee borne at home, or borne without: thou shalt not discouer their shame.
Leviticus 18:10	The shame of thy sonnes daughter, or of thy daughters daughter, thou shalt not, I say, vncouer their shame: for it is thy shame.
Leviticus 18:11	The shame of thy fathers wiues daughter, begotten of thy father (for she is thy sister) thou shalt not, I say, discouer her shame.
Leviticus 18:12	Thou shalt not vncouer the shame of thy fathers sister: for she is thy fathers kinswoman.
Leviticus 18:13	Thou shalt not discouer the shame of thy mothers sister: for she is thy mothers kinsewoman.
Leviticus 18:14	Thou shalt not vncouer the shame of thy fathers brother: that is, thou shalt not goe in to his wife, for she is thine aunte.
Leviticus 18:15	Thou shalt not discouer the shame of thy daughter in lawe: for she is thy sonnes wife: therefore shalt thou not vncouer her shame.
Leviticus 18:16	Thou shalt not discouer the shame of thy brothers wife. for it is thy brothers shame.
Leviticus 18:17	Thou shalt not discouer the shame of the wife and of her daughter, neither shalt thou take her sonnes daughter, nor her daughters daughter, to vncouer her shame: for they are thy kinsfolkes, and it were wickednesse.
Leviticus 18:18	Also thou shalt not take a wife with her sister, during her life, to vexe her, in vncouering her shame vpon her.
Leviticus 18:19	Thou shalt not also go vnto a woman to vncouer her shame, as long as she is put apart for her disease.
Leviticus 18:20	Moreouer, thou shalt not giue thy selfe to thy neighbours wife by carnall copulation, to be defiled with her.
Leviticus 18:21	Also thou shalt not giue thy children to offer them vnto Molech, neither shalt thou defile the name of thy God: for I am the Lord.
Leviticus 18:22	Thou shalt not lie with ye male as one lieth with a woman: for it is abomination.
Leviticus 18:23	Thou shalt not also lie with any beast to bee defiled therewith, neither shall any woman stand before a beast, to lie downe thereto: for it is abomination.
Leviticus 18:24	Yee shall not defile your selues in any of these things: for in al these the nations are defiled, which I will cast out before you:
Leviticus 18:25	And the land is defiled: therefore I wil visit the wickednesse thereof vpon it, and the lande shall vomit out her inhabitants.
Leviticus 18:26	Ye shall keepe therefore mine ordinances, and my iudgements, and commit none of these abominations, aswell hee that is of the same countrey, as the straunger that soiourneth among you.
Leviticus 18:27	(For all these abominations haue the men of the land done, which were before you, and the land is defiled:
Leviticus 18:28	And shall not the lande spue you out if ye defile it, as it spued out the people that were before you?)
Leviticus 18:29	For whosoeuer shall commit any of these abominations, the persons that doe so, shall bee cut off from among their people.
Leviticus 18:30	Therefore shall yee keepe mine ordinances that ye do not any of the abominable customes, which haue bene done before you, and that yee defile not your selues therein: for I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 19:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 19:2	Speake vnto all the Congregation of the children of Israel, and say vnto them, Ye shalbe holy, for I the Lord your God am holy.
Leviticus 19:3	Yee shall feare euery man his mother and his father, and shall keepe my Sabbaths: for I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 19:4	Ye shall not turne vnto idoles, nor make you molten gods: I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 19:5	And when yee shall offer a peace offering vnto the Lord, ye shall offer it freely.
Leviticus 19:6	It shall be eaten the day yee offer it, or on the morowe: and that which remaineth vntill the third day, shalbe burnt in the fire.
Leviticus 19:7	For if it be eaten the third day, it shall be vncleane, it shall not be accepted.
Leviticus 19:8	Therefore he that eateth it, shall beare his iniquitie, because he hath defiled the halowed thing of the Lord, and that person shalbe cut off from his people.
Leviticus 19:9	When yee reape the haruest of your land, ye shall not reape euery corner of your field, neither shalt thou gather the glainings of thy haruest.
Leviticus 19:10	Thou shalt not gather the grapes of thy vineyarde cleane, neyther gather euery grape of thy vineyarde, but thou shalt leaue them for the poore and for the straunger: I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 19:11	Ye shall not steale, neither deale falsely, neither lie one to another.
Leviticus 19:12	Also yee shall not sweare by my name falsely, neither shalt thou defile the name of thy God: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 19:13	Thou shalt not do thy neighbour wrong, neither rob him. The workemans hire shall not abide with thee vntil the morning.
Leviticus 19:14	Thou shalt not curse the deafe, neither put a stumbling blocke before the blinde, but shalt feare thy God: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 19:15	Ye shall not doe vniustly in iudgement. Thou shalt not fauour the person of the poore, nor honour the person of the mightie, but thou shalt iudge thy neighbour iustly.
Leviticus 19:16	Thou shalt not walke about with tales among thy people. Thou shalt not stand against the blood of thy neighbour: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 19:17	Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart, but thou shalt plainely rebuke thy neighbour, and suffer him not to sinne.
Leviticus 19:18	Thou shalt not auenge, nor be mindful of wrong against ye childre of thy people, but shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 19:19	Yee shall keepe mine ordinances. Thou shalt not let thy cattel gender with others of diuers kindes. Thou shalt not sowe thy fielde with mingled seede, neyther shall a garment of diuers thinges, as of linen and wollen come vpon thee.
Leviticus 19:20	Whosoeuer also lyeth and medleth with a woman that is a bonde mayde, affianced to a husband, and not redeemed, nor freedome giuen her, she shalbe scourged, but they shall not die, because she is not made free.
Leviticus 19:21	And he shall bring for his trespasse offring vnto the Lord, at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, a ramme for a trespasse offering.
Leviticus 19:22	Then the Priest shall make an atonement for him with the ramme of the trespasse offering before the Lord, concerning his sinne which he hath done, and pardon shalbe giuen him for his sinne which he hath committed.
Leviticus 19:23	Also when ye shall come into the land, and haue planted euery tree for meate, ye shall count the fruite thereof as vncircumcised: three yeere shall it be vncircumcised vnto you, it shall not be eaten:
Leviticus 19:24	But in the fourth yere all the fruite thereof shalbe holy to the praise of the Lord.
Leviticus 19:25	And in the fifth yeere shall ye eate of the fruite of it that it may yeelde to you the encrease thereof: I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 19:26	Ye shall not eat the flesh with the blood, ye shall not vse witchcraft, nor obserue times.
Leviticus 19:27	Ye shall not cut rounde the corners of your heades, neither shalt thou marre the tuftes of thy beard.
Leviticus 19:28	Ye shall not cut your flesh for the dead, nor make any print of a marke vpon you: I am the Lord,
Leviticus 19:29	Thou shalt not make thy daughter common, to cause her to be a whore, least the lande also fall to whoredome, and the lande bee full of wickednesse.
Leviticus 19:30	Ye shall keepe my Sabbaths and reuerence my Sanctuarie: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 19:31	Ye shall not regarde them that worke with spirites, neither soothsayers: ye shall not seeke to them to be defiled by them: I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 19:32	Thou shalt rise vp before the horehead, and honour the person of the old man, and dread thy God: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 19:33	And if a stranger soiourne with thee in your lande, ye shall not vexe him.
Leviticus 19:34	But the stranger that dwelleth with you, shalbe as one of your selues, and thou shalt loue him as thy selfe: for ye were strangers in the lad of Egypt: I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 19:35	Ye shall not doe vniustly in iudgement, in line, in weight, or in measure.
Leviticus 19:36	You shall haue iust ballances, true weightes, a true Ephah, and a true Hin. I am the Lord your God, which haue brought you out of the lande of Egypt.
Leviticus 19:37	Therefore shall ye obserue all mine ordinances, and all my iudgements, and doe them: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 20:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 20:2	Thou shalt say also to the children of Israel, Whosoeuer he be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that dwell in Israel, that giueth his children vnto Molech, he shall die the death, ye people of ye land shall stone him to death.
Leviticus 20:3	And I will set my face against that man and cut him off from among his people, because he hath giuen his children vnto Molech, for to defile my Sanctuarie, and to pollute mine holy Name.
Leviticus 20:4	And if the people of the lande hide their eyes, and winke at that man when he giueth his children vnto Molech, and kill him not,
Leviticus 20:5	Then will I set my face against that man, and against his familie, and will cut him off, and all that go a whoring after him to comit whoredome with Molech, from among their people.
Leviticus 20:6	If any turne after such as worke with spirits, and after soothsayers, to go a whoring after them, then will I set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among his people.
Leviticus 20:7	Sanctifie your selues therefore, and be holie, for I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 20:8	Keepe ye therefore mine ordinances, and doe them. I am the Lord which doeth sanctifie you.
Leviticus 20:9	If there be any that curseth his father or his mother, he shall die the death: seeing hee hath cursed his father and his mother, his blood shalbe vpon him.
Leviticus 20:10	And the man that committeth adulterie with another mans wife, because he hath comitted adulterie with his neighbours wife, the adulterer and the adulteresse shall die the death.
Leviticus 20:11	And the man that lyeth with his fathers wife, because hee hath vncouered his fathers shame, they shall both dye: their blood shalbe vpon them.
Leviticus 20:12	Also the man that lyeth with his daughter in lawe, they both shall dye the death, they haue wrought abomination, their blood shalbe vpon them.
Leviticus 20:13	The man also that lyeth with the male, as one lyeth with a woman, they haue both committed abomination: they shall dye the death, their blood shalbe vpon them.
Leviticus 20:14	Likewise he that taketh a wife and her mother, committeth wickednesse: they shall burne him and them with fire, that there be no wickednes among you.
Leviticus 20:15	Also the man that lyeth with a beast, shall dye the death, and ye shall slay the beast.
Leviticus 20:16	And if a woman come to any beast, and lye therewith, then thou shalt kill the woman and the beast: they shall die the death, their blood shalbe vpon them.
Leviticus 20:17	Also the man that taketh his sister, his fathers daughter, or his mothers daughter, and seeth her shame and she seeth his shame, it is villenie: therefore they shall be cut off in the sight of their people, because he hath vncouered his sisters shame, he shall beare his iniquitie.
Leviticus 20:18	The man also that lyeth with a woman hauing her disease, and vncouereth her shame, and openeth her fountaine, and she open the foutaine of her blood, they shall bee euen both cut off from among their people.
Leviticus 20:19	Moreouer thou shalt not vncouer the shame of thy mothers sister, nor of thy fathers sister: because he hath vncouered his kin, they shall beare their iniquitie.
Leviticus 20:20	Likewise the man that lyeth with his fathers brothers wife, and vncouereth his vncles shame: they shall beare their iniquitie, and shall die childlesse.
Leviticus 20:21	So the man that taketh his brothers wife, committeth filthines, because he hath vncouered his brothers shame: they shalbe childles.
Leviticus 20:22	Ye shall keepe therefore all mine ordinances and all my iudgements, and doe them, that the land, whither I bring you to dwel therein, spue you not out.
Leviticus 20:23	Wherefore ye shall not walke in the maners of this nation which I cast out before you: for they haue committed all these things, therefore I abhorred them.
Leviticus 20:24	But I haue saide vnto you, ye shall inherite their land, and I will giue it vnto you to possesse it, euen a land that floweth with milke and honie: I am the Lord your God, which haue separated you from other people.
Leviticus 20:25	Therefore shall ye put difference betweene cleane beastes and vncleane, and betweene vncleane foules and cleane: neither shall ye defile your selues with beastes and foules, nor with any creeping thing, that ye ground bringeth forth, which I haue separated from you as vncleane.
Leviticus 20:26	Therefore shall ye be holie vnto me: for I the Lord am holy, and I haue separated you from other people, that ye shoulde be mine.
Leviticus 20:27	And if a man or woman haue a spirite of diuination, or soothsaying in them, they shall die the death: they shall stone them to death, their blood shalbe vpon them.
Leviticus 21:1	And the Lord said vnto Moses, Speake vnto the Priestes the sonnes of Aaron, and say vnto them, Let none be defiled by the dead among his people,
Leviticus 21:2	But by his kinseman that is neere vnto him: to wit, by his mother, or by his father, or by his sonne, or by his daughter, or by his brother,
Leviticus 21:3	Or by his sister a maid, that is neere vnto him, which hath not had a husband: for her he may lament.
Leviticus 21:4	He shall not lament for the Prince among his people, to pollute him selfe.
Leviticus 21:5	They shall not make balde partes vpon their head, nor shaue off the locks of their beard, nor make any cuttings in their flesh.
Leviticus 21:6	They shalbe holy vnto their God, and not pollute the name of their God: for the sacrifices of the Lord made by fire, and the bread of their God they doe offer: therefore they shalbe holie.
Leviticus 21:7	They shall not take to wife an whore, or one polluted, neither shall they marrie a woman diuorced from her husband: for such one is holy vnto his God.
Leviticus 21:8	Thou shalt sanctifie him therefore, for he offereth the bread of thy God: he shall be holy vnto thee: for I the Lord, which sanctifie you, am holy.
Leviticus 21:9	If a Priestes daughter fall to play the whore, she polluteth her father: therefore shall she be burnt with fire.
Leviticus 21:10	Also ye hie Priest among his brethren, (vpon whose head the anointing oyle was powred, and hath consecrated his hand to put on the garments) shall not vncouer his head, nor rent his clothes,
Leviticus 21:11	Neither shall he goe to any dead bodie, nor make him selfe vncleane by his father or by his mother,
Leviticus 21:12	Neither shall he goe out of the Sanctuarie, nor pollute the holy place of his God: for the crowne of the anoynting oyle of his God is vpon him: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 21:13	Also he shall take a maide vnto his wife:
Leviticus 21:14	But a widowe, or a diuorced woman, or a polluted, or an harlot, these shall he not marrie, but shall take a maide of his owne people to wife:
Leviticus 21:15	Neyther shall he defile his seede among his people: for I am the Lord which sanctifie him.
Leviticus 21:16	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 21:17	Speake vnto Aaron, and say, Whosoeuer of thy seede in their generations hath any blemishes, shall not prease to offer the bread of his God:
Leviticus 21:18	For whosoeuer hath any blemish, shall not come neere: as a man blinde or lame, or that hath a flat nose, or that hath any misshapen member,
Leviticus 21:19	Or a man that hath a broken foote, or a broken hande,
Leviticus 21:20	Or is crooke backt, or bleare eyed, or hath a blemish in his eye, or be skiruie, or skabbed, or haue his stones broken.
Leviticus 21:21	None of the seede of Aaron the Priest that hath a blemish, shall come neere to offer the sacrifices of the Lord made by fire, hauing a blemish: he shall not prease to offer the bread of his God.
Leviticus 21:22	The bread of his God, euen of the most holie, and of the holy shall he eate:
Leviticus 21:23	But he shall not goe in vnto the vaile, nor come neere the altar, because hee hath a blemish, least he pollute my Sanctuaries: for I am the Lord that sanctifie them.
Leviticus 21:24	Thus spake Moses vnto Aaron, and to his sonnes, and to all the children of Israel.
Leviticus 22:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 22:2	Speake vnto Aaron, and to his sonnes, that they be separated from the holy thinges of the children of Israel, and that they pollute not mine holy name in those things, which they hallowe vnto me: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 22:3	Say vnto them, Whosoeuer he be of all your seede among your generations after you, that toucheth the holy things which the children of Israel hallowe vnto the Lord, hauing his vncleannesse vpon him, euen that person shall be cut off from my sight: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 22:4	Whosoeuer also of the seede of Aaron is a leper, or hath a running issue, he shall not eate of the holy things vntill he be cleane: and who so toucheth any that is vncleane, by reason of the dead, or a man whose issue of seede runneth from him,
Leviticus 22:5	Or the man that toucheth any creeping thing, whereby he may be made vncleane, or a man, by whom he may take vncleannesse, whatsoeuer vncleannesse he hath,
Leviticus 22:6	The person that hath touched such, shall therefore be vncleane vntill the euen, and shall not eat of ye holy things, except he haue washed his flesh with water.
Leviticus 22:7	But when the Sunne is downe, hee shalbe cleane, and shall afterward eate of the holy things: for it is his foode.
Leviticus 22:8	Of a beast that dyeth, or is rent with beasts, whereby he may be defiled, hee shall not eate: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 22:9	Let them keepe therefore mine ordinance, least they beare their sinne for it, and die for it, if they defile it: I the Lord sanctifie them.
Leviticus 22:10	There shall no stranger also eate of the holie thing, neither the ghest of the Priest, neither shall an hired seruant eat of the holie thing:
Leviticus 22:11	But if the Priest bye any with money, he shall eate of it, also he that is borne in his house: they shall eate of his meate.
Leviticus 22:12	If the Priests daughter also be maried vnto a stranger, she may not eate of the holy offrings.
Leviticus 22:13	Notwithstanding if the Priests daughter be a widowe or diuorced, and haue no childe, but is returned vnto her fathers house shee shall eate of her fathers bread, as she did in her youth but there shall no stranger eate thereof.
Leviticus 22:14	If a man eate of the holie thing vnwittingly, he shall put the fift part thereunto, and giue it vnto the Priest with the halowed thing.
Leviticus 22:15	So they shall not defile the holy things of the children of Israel, which they offer vnto the Lord,
Leviticus 22:16	Neither cause the people to beare the iniquitie of their trespas, while they eate their holy thing: for I the Lord do halowe them.
Leviticus 22:17	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 22:18	Speake vnto Aaron, and to his sonnes, and to all the children of Israel, and say vnto them, Whosoeuer he be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers in Israel, that will offer his sacrifice for all their vowes, and for all their free offrings, which they vse to offer vnto the Lord for a burnt offring,
Leviticus 22:19	Yee shall offer of your free minde a male without blemish of the beeues, of the sheepe, or of the goates.
Leviticus 22:20	Ye shall not offer any thing that hath a blemish: for that shall not be acceptable for you.
Leviticus 22:21	And whosoeuer bringeth a peace offring vnto ye Lord to accomplish his vowe, or for a free offring, of the beeues, or of the sheepe, his free offring shall bee perfect, no blemish shalbe in it.
Leviticus 22:22	Blinde, or broken, or maimed, or hauing a wenne, or skiruie, or skabbed: these shall yee not offer vnto the Lord nor make an offring by fire of these vpon the altar of the Lord.
Leviticus 22:23	Yet a bullocke, or a sheepe that hath any member superfluous, or lacking, such mayest thou present for a free offring, but for a vowe it shall not be accepted.
Leviticus 22:24	Ye shall not offer vnto ye Lord that which is bruised or crusshed, or broken, or cut away, neither shall ye make an offring thereof in your land,
Leviticus 22:25	Neither of ye hand of a strager shall ye offer ye bread of your God of any of these, because their corruption is in them, there is a blemish in them: therefore shall they not be accepted for you.
Leviticus 22:26	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 22:27	When a bullocke, or a sheepe, or a goate shall be brought foorth, it shalbe euen seuen daies vnder his damme: and from the eight day forth, it shalbe accepted for a sacrifice made by fire vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 22:28	As for the cowe or the ewe, yee shall not kill her, and her yong both in one day.
Leviticus 22:29	So when ye will offer a thanke offring vnto the Lord, ye shall offer willingly.
Leviticus 22:30	The same day it shalbe eaten, yee shall leaue none of it vntill the morowe: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 22:31	Therefore shall ye keepe my commandements and do them: for I am the Lord.
Leviticus 22:32	Neither shall ye pollute mine holy Name, but I will be halowed among the children of Israel. I the Lord sanctifie you,
Leviticus 22:33	Which haue brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 23:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 23:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, The feastes of ye Lord which yee shall call ye holie assemblies, euen these are my feasts.
Leviticus 23:3	Six daies shall worke be done, but in the seuenth day shalbe the Sabbath of rest, an holie conuocation: ye shall do no worke therein, it is the Sabbath of the Lord, in all your dwellings.
Leviticus 23:4	These are the feastes of the Lord, and holie conuocations, which yee shall proclaime in their seasons.
Leviticus 23:5	In the first moneth, and in the fourteenth day of the moneth at euening shalbe ye Passeouer of the Lord.
Leviticus 23:6	And on the fifteenth day of this moneth shalbe the feast of vnleauened bread vnto the Lord: seuen dayes ye shall eate vnleauened bread.
Leviticus 23:7	In the first day yee shall haue an holy conuocation: ye shall do no seruile worke therein.
Leviticus 23:8	Also ye shall offer sacrifice made by fire vnto the Lord seuen daies, and in the seuenth day shalbe an holie conuocation: ye shall do no seruile worke therein.
Leviticus 23:9	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 23:10	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, When ye be come into ye land which I giue vnto you, and reape the haruest thereof, then ye shall bring a sheafe of the first fruites of your haruest vnto the Priest,
Leviticus 23:11	And hee shall shake the sheafe before the Lord, that it may be acceptable for you: the morowe after the Sabbath, the Priest shall shake it.
Leviticus 23:12	And that day when yee shake the sheafe, shall yee prepare a lambe without blemish of a yeere olde, for a burnt offring vnto the Lord:
Leviticus 23:13	And the meate offring thereof shalbe two tenth deales of fine floure mingled with oyle, for a sacrifice made by fire vnto ye Lord of sweete sauour. and the drinke offring thereof the fourth part of an Hin of wine.
Leviticus 23:14	And ye shall eat neither bread nor parched corne, nor greene eares vntill the selfe same day that ye haue brought an offring vnto your God: this shalbe a lawe for euer in your generations and in all your dwellings.
Leviticus 23:15	Ye shall count also to you from the morowe after the Sabbath, euen from the day that yee shall bring the sheafe of the shake offring, seuen Sabbaths, they shalbe complete.
Leviticus 23:16	Vnto ye morow after the seuenth Sabbath shall ye nomber fiftie dayes: then yee shall bring a newe meate offring vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 23:17	Ye shall bring out of your habitations bread for the shake offring: they shalbe two loaues of two tenth deales of fine floure, which shalbe baken with leauen for first fruites vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 23:18	Also yee shall offer with the bread seuen lambes without blemish of one yeere olde, and a yong bullocke and two rams: they shalbe for a burnt offring vnto the Lord, with their meate offrings and their drinke offrings, for a sacrifice made by fire of a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 23:19	Then ye shall prepare an hee goate for a sinne offring, and two lambes of one yeere olde for peace offrings.
Leviticus 23:20	And the Priest shall shake them to and from with the bread of the first fruits before the Lord, and with the two lambes: they shalbe holy to the Lord, for the Priest.
Leviticus 23:21	So ye shall proclayme the same day, that it may be an holie conuocation vnto you: ye shall doe no seruile worke therein: it shalbe an ordinance for euer in al your dwellinges, throughout your generations.
Leviticus 23:22	And when you reape the haruest of your land, thou shalt not rid cleane the corners of thy field when thou reapest, neither shalt thou make any aftergathering of thy haruest, but shalt leaue them vnto the poore and to the stranger: I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 23:23	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 23:24	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say, In the seuenth moneth, and in the first day of the moneth shall ye haue a Sabbath, for the remembrance of blowing the trumpets, an holy conuocation.
Leviticus 23:25	Ye shall do no seruile worke therein, but offer sacrifice made by fire vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 23:26	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 23:27	The tenth also of this seuenth moneth shalbe a day of reconciliation: it shalbe an holie conuocation vnto you, and yee shall humble your soules, and offer sacrifice made by fire vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 23:28	And ye shall doe no worke that same day: for it is a day of reconciliation, to make an atonement for you before the Lord your God.
Leviticus 23:29	For euery person that humbleth not himselfe that same day, shall euen be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 23:30	And euery person that shall doe any work that same day, the same person also will I destroy from among his people.
Leviticus 23:31	Ye shall do no maner worke therefore: this shalbe a law for euer in your generations, throughout all your dwellings.
Leviticus 23:32	This shalbe vnto you a Sabbath of rest, and ye shall humble your soules: in the ninth day of the moneth at euen, from euen to euen shall ye celebrate your Sabbath.
Leviticus 23:33	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 23:34	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say, In the fifteenth day of this seueth moneth shalbe for seuen dayes the feast of Tabernacles vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 23:35	In the first day shalbe an holie conuocation: ye shall do no seruile worke therein.
Leviticus 23:36	Seuen daies ye shall offer sacrifice made by fire vnto the Lord, and in the eight day shalbe an holy conuocation vnto you, and ye shall offer sacrifices made by fire vnto the Lord: it is the solemne assemblie, yee shall doe no seruile worke therein.
Leviticus 23:37	These are the feastes of the Lord (which ye shall call holie conuocations) to offer sacrifice made by fire vnto the Lord, as burnt offring, and meate offring, sacrifice, and drinke offrings, euery one vpon his day,
Leviticus 23:38	Beside the Sabbaths of the Lord, and beside your giftes, and beside al your vowes, and beside all your free offrings, which ye shall giue vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 23:39	But in the fifteenth day of the seueth moneth, when ye haue gathered in the fruite of the land, ye shall keepe an holie feast vnto the Lord seuen daies: in the first day shalbe a Sabbath: likewise in the eight day shalbe a Sabbath.
Leviticus 23:40	And yee shall take you in the first day the fruite of goodly trees, branches of palme trees, and the boughes of thicke trees, and willowes of the brooke, and shall reioyce before the Lord your God seuen daies.
Leviticus 23:41	So ye shall keepe this feast vnto the Lord seuen daies in the yere, by a perpetuall ordinance through your generations: in the seuenth moneth shall you keepe it.
Leviticus 23:42	Ye shall dwell in boothes seuen daies: all that are Israelites borne, shall dwel in boothes,
Leviticus 23:43	That your posterity may know that I haue made the children of Israel to dwell in boothes, when I brought them out of the lande of Egypt: I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 23:44	So Moses declared vnto the children of Israel the feastes of the Lord.
Leviticus 24:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 24:2	Commande the children of Israel that they bring vnto thee pure oyle oliue beaten, for the light, to cause ye lampes to burne continually.
Leviticus 24:3	Without the vaile of the Testimonie, in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, shall Aaron dresse them, both euen and morning before the Lord alwayes: this shalbe a lawe for euer through your generations.
Leviticus 24:4	He shall dresse the lampes vpon the pure Candlesticke before the Lord perpetually.
Leviticus 24:5	Also thou shalt take fine floure, and bake twelue cakes thereof: two tenth deales shalbe in one cake.
Leviticus 24:6	And thou shalt set them in two rowes, six in a rowe vpon the pure table before the Lord.
Leviticus 24:7	Thou shalt also put pure incense vpon the rowes, that in steade of the bread it may bee for a remembrance, and an offering made by fire to the Lord.
Leviticus 24:8	Euery Sabbath hee shall put them in rowes before the Lord euermore, receiuing them of the children of Israel for an euerlasting couenant.
Leviticus 24:9	And the bread shalbe Aarons and his sonnes, and they shall eate it in the holie place: for it is most holie vnto him of the offrings of the Lord made by fire by a perpetuall ordinance.
Leviticus 24:10	And there went out among the children of Israel the sonne of an Israelitish woman, whose father was an Egyptian: and this sonne of the Israelitish woman, and a man of Israel stroue together in the hoste.
Leviticus 24:11	So the Israelitish womans sonne blasphemed the name of the Lord, and cursed, and they brought him vnto Moses (his mothers name also was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan)
Leviticus 24:12	And they put him in warde, till he tolde them the minde of the Lord.
Leviticus 24:13	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 24:14	Bring the blasphemer without the hoste, and let all that heard him, put their handes vpon his head, and let all the Congregation stone him.
Leviticus 24:15	And thou shalt speake vnto the children of Israel, saying, Whosoeuer curseth his God, shall beare his sinne.
Leviticus 24:16	And he that blasphemeth the name of the Lord, shalbe put to death: all the Congregation shall stone him to death: aswell the stranger, as he that is borne in the lande: when he blasphemeth the name of the Lord, let him beslaine.
Leviticus 24:17	He also that killeth any man, he shall be put to death.
Leviticus 24:18	And he that killeth a beast, he shall restore it, beast for beast.
Leviticus 24:19	Also if a man cause any blemish in his neighbour: as he hath done, so shall it be done to him.
Leviticus 24:20	Breache for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth: such a blemish as he hath made in any, such shalbe repayed to him.
Leviticus 24:21	And he that killeth a beast shall restore it: but he that killeth a man shall be slaine.
Leviticus 24:22	Ye shall haue one lawe: it shalbe aswel for the stranger as for one borne in the countrey: for I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 24:23	Then Moses tolde the children of Israel, and they brought the blasphemer out of the hoste, and stoned him with stones: so the children of Israel did as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Leviticus 25:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses in mount Sinai, saying,
Leviticus 25:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, When ye shall come into the lande which I giue you, the lande shall keepe Sabbath vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 25:3	Sixe yeeres thou shalt sowe thy field, and sixe yeeres thou shalt cut thy vineyarde, and gather the fruite thereof.
Leviticus 25:4	But the seuenth yeere shalbe a Sabbath of rest vnto the lande: it shall be the Lordes Sabbath: thou shalt neither sowe thy fielde, nor cut thy vineyarde.
Leviticus 25:5	That which groweth of it owne accorde of thy haruest, thou shalt not reape, neither gather the grapes that thou hast left vnlaboured: for it shalbe a yeere of rest vnto the land.
Leviticus 25:6	And the rest of the lande shall be meate for you, euen for thee, and for thy seruant, and for thy mayde, and for thy hired seruant, and for the stranger that soiourneth with thee:
Leviticus 25:7	And for thy cattell, and for the beastes that are in thy lande shall all the encrease thereof be meate.
Leviticus 25:8	Also thou shalt number seuen Sabbaths of yeeres vnto thee, euen seuen times seuen yeere: and the space of the seuen Sabbaths of yeeres will be vnto thee nine and fourtie yeere.
Leviticus 25:9	Then thou shalt cause to blow the trumpet of the Iubile in the tenth day of the seuenth moneth: euen in the day of the reconciliation shall ye make the trumpet blowe, throughout all your lande.
Leviticus 25:10	And ye shall halowe that yeere, euen the fiftieth yeere, and proclaime libertie in the lande to all the inhabitants thereof: it shalbe the Iubile vnto you, and ye shall returne euery man vnto his possession, and euery man shall returne vnto his familie.
Leviticus 25:11	This fiftieth yeere shalbe a yeere of Iubile vnto you: ye shall not sowe, neither reape that which groweth of it selfe, neither gather the grapes thereof, that are left vnlaboured.
Leviticus 25:12	For it is the Iubile, it shall be holy vnto you: ye shall eate of the encrease thereof out of the fielde.
Leviticus 25:13	In the yeere of this Iubile, ye shall returne euery man vnto his possession.
Leviticus 25:14	And when thou sellest ought to thy neighbour, or byest at thy neighbours hande, ye shall not oppresse one another:
Leviticus 25:15	But according to the nomber of yeeres after the Iubile thou shalt bye of thy neighbour: also according to the nomber of the yeeres of the reuenues, he shall sell vnto thee.
Leviticus 25:16	According to the multitude of yeeres, thou shalt increase the price thereof, and according to the fewnesse of yeeres, thou shalt abate the price of it: for the nomber of fruites doeth he sell vnto thee.
Leviticus 25:17	Oppresse not ye therefore any man his neighbour, but thou shalt feare thy God: for I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 25:18	Wherefore ye shall obey mine ordinances, and keepe my lawes, and do them, and ye shall dwell in the land in safetie.
Leviticus 25:19	And the lande shall giue her fruite, and ye shall eate your fill, and dwell therein in safetie.
Leviticus 25:20	And if ye shall say, What shall we eate the seuenth yeere, for we shall not sowe, nor gather in our increase?
Leviticus 25:21	I will sende my blessing vpon you in the sixt yeere, and it shall bring foorth fruite for three yeeres.
Leviticus 25:22	And ye shall sowe the eight yeere, and eate of the olde fruite vntill the ninth yeere: vntill the fruite thereof come, ye shall eate the olde.
Leviticus 25:23	Also the lande shall not be solde to be cut off from the familie: for the land is mine, and ye be but strangers and soiourners with me.
Leviticus 25:24	Therefore in all the land of your possession ye shall graunt a redemption for the lande.
Leviticus 25:25	If thy brother be impouerished, and sell his possession, then his redeemer shall come, euen his neere kinsman, and bye out that which his brother solde.
Leviticus 25:26	And if he haue no redeemer, but hath gotten and founde to bye it out,
Leviticus 25:27	Then shall he count the yeeres of his sale, and restore the ouerplus to the man, to whome he solde it: so shall he returne to his possession.
Leviticus 25:28	But if he can not get sufficient to restore to him, then that which is solde, shall remaine in the hande of him that hath bought it, vntill the yere of the Iubile: and in the Iubile it shall come out, and he shall returne vnto his possession.
Leviticus 25:29	Likewise if a man sell a dwelling house in a walled citie, he may bye it out againe within a whole yeere after it is solde: within a yeere may he bye it out.
Leviticus 25:30	But if it be not bought out within ye space of a ful yeere, then the house that is in the walled citie, shalbe stablished, as cut off from the familie, to him that bought it, throughout his generations: it shall not goe out in the Iubile.
Leviticus 25:31	But the houses of villages, which haue no walles round about them, shalbe esteemed as the fielde of the countrey: they may be bought out againe, and shall goe out in the Iubile.
Leviticus 25:32	Notwithstanding, the cities of the Leuites, and the houses of the cities of their possession, may the Leuites redeeme at all seasons.
Leviticus 25:33	And if a man purchase of the Leuites, the house that was solde, and the citie of their possession shall goe out in the Iubile: for the houses of the cities of the Leuites are their possession among the children of Israel.
Leviticus 25:34	But the fielde of the suburbes of their cities, shall not be solde: for it is their perpetuall possession.
Leviticus 25:35	Moreouer, if thy brother be impouerished, and fallen in decay with thee, thou shalt relieue him, and as a stranger and soiourner, so shall he liue with thee.
Leviticus 25:36	Thou shalt take no vsurie of him, nor vantage, but thou shalt feare thy God, that thy brother may liue with thee.
Leviticus 25:37	Thou shalt not giue him thy money to vsurie, nor lende him thy vitailes for increase.
Leviticus 25:38	I am the Lord your God, which haue brought you out of the lande of Egypt, to giue you the lande of Canaan, and to be your God.
Leviticus 25:39	If thy brother also that dwelleth by thee, be impouerished, and be sold vnto thee, thou shalt not compel him to serue as a bond seruant,
Leviticus 25:40	But as an hired seruant, and as a soiourner he shalbe with thee: he shall serue thee vnto the yeere of the Iubile.
Leviticus 25:41	Then shall he depart from thee, both hee, and his children with him, and shall returne vnto his familie, and vnto the possession of his fathers shall he returne:
Leviticus 25:42	For they are my seruants, whom I brought out of the lande of Egypt: they shall not be solde as bondmen are solde.
Leviticus 25:43	Thou shalt not rule ouer him cruelly, but shalt feare thy God.
Leviticus 25:44	Thy bond seruant also, and thy bond maid, which thou shalt haue, shalbe of the heathen that are rounde about you: of them shall ye bye seruants and maydes.
Leviticus 25:45	And moreouer of the children of the stragers, that are soiourners among you, of them shall ye bye, and of their families that are with you, which they begate in your lande: these shall be your possession.
Leviticus 25:46	So ye shall take them as inheritance for your children after you, to possesse them by inheritance, ye shall vse their labours for euer: but ouer your brethren the children of Israel ye shall not rule one ouer another with crueltie.
Leviticus 25:47	If a soiourner or a stranger dwelling by thee get riches, and thy brother by him be impouerished, and sell him selfe vnto the stranger or soiourner dwelling by thee, or to the stocke of the strangers familie,
Leviticus 25:48	After that he is solde, he may be bought out: one of his brethren may bye him out,
Leviticus 25:49	Or his vncle, or his vncles sonne may bye him out, or any of the kindred of his flesh among his familie, may redeeme him: either if he can get so much, he may bye him selfe out.
Leviticus 25:50	Then he shall recken with his byer from the yeere that he was solde to him, vnto the yere of Iubile: and the money of his sale shalbe according to the number of yeeres: according to the time of an hyred seruant shall he be with him.
Leviticus 25:51	If there be many yeeres behind, according to them he shall giue againe for his deliuerance, of the money that he was bought for.
Leviticus 25:52	If there remaine but fewe yeeres vnto the yeere of Iubile, then he shall count with him, and according to his yeeres giue againe for his redemption.
Leviticus 25:53	He shalbe with him yeere by yeere as an hired seruant: he shall not rule cruelly ouer him in thy sight.
Leviticus 25:54	And if he be not redeemed thus, he shall go out in the yeere of Iubile, he, and his children with him.
Leviticus 25:55	For vnto me the children of Israel are seruants: they are my seruants, who I haue brought out of the land of Egypt: I am ye Lord your God.
Leviticus 26:1	Ye shall make you none idoles nor grauen image, neither reare you vp any pillar, neither shall ye set any image of stone in your land to bow downe to it: for I am the Lord your God.
Leviticus 26:2	Ye shall keepe my Sabbaths, and reuerence my Sanctuarie: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 26:3	If ye walke in mine ordinances, and keepe my commandements, and doe them,
Leviticus 26:4	I will then sende you raine in due season, and the land shall yelde her increase, and the trees of the fielde shall giue her fruite.
Leviticus 26:5	And your threshing shall reache vnto the vintage, and the vintage shall reache vnto sowing time, and you shall eate your bread in plenteousnesse, and dwell in your land safely.
Leviticus 26:6	And I will sende peace in the land, and ye shall sleepe and none shall make you afraid: also I will rid euill beastes out of the lande, and the sworde shall not go through your lande.
Leviticus 26:7	Also ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you vpon the sworde.
Leviticus 26:8	And fiue of you shall chase an hundreth, and an hundreth of you shall put ten thousande to flight, and your enemies shall fall before you vpon the sworde.
Leviticus 26:9	For I will haue respect vnto you, and make you encrease, and multiplie you, and establish my couenant with you.
Leviticus 26:10	Ye shall eate also olde store, and cary out olde because of the newe.
Leviticus 26:11	And I will set my Tabernacle among you, and my soule shall not lothe you.
Leviticus 26:12	Also I will walke among you, and I wil be your God, and ye shalbe my people.
Leviticus 26:13	I am the Lord your God which haue brought you out of the lande of Egypt, that yee should not be their bondmen, and I haue broken ye bonds of your yoke, and made you goe vpright.
Leviticus 26:14	But if ye will not obey me, nor do all these commandements,
Leviticus 26:15	And if ye shall despise mine ordinances, either if your soule abhorre my lawes, so that yee will not do all my commandements, but breake my couenant,
Leviticus 26:16	Then wil I also do this vnto you, I wil appoint ouer you fearefulnes, a consumption, and the burning ague to consume the eyes, and make the heart heauie, and you shall sowe your seede in vaine: for your enemies shall eate it:
Leviticus 26:17	And I will set my face against you, and ye shall fal before your enemies, and they that hate you, shall raigne ouer you, and yee shall flee when none pursueth you.
Leviticus 26:18	And if ye wil not for these things obey me, then wil I punish you seuen times more, according to your sinnes,
Leviticus 26:19	And I wil breake the pride of your power, and I will make your heauen as yron, and your earth as brasse:
Leviticus 26:20	And your strength shalbe spent in vaine: neither shall your lande giue her increase, neither shall the trees of the land giue their fruite.
Leviticus 26:21	And if ye walke stubburnly against me, and will not obey mee, I will then bring seuen times more plagues vpon you, according to your sinnes.
Leviticus 26:22	I will also sende wilde beastes vpon you, which shall spoyle you, and destroy your cattell, and make you fewe in number: so your hye waies shalbe desolate.
Leviticus 26:23	Yet if by these ye will not be reformed by me, but walke stubburnly against me,
Leviticus 26:24	Then wil I also walke stubburnly against you, and I will smite you yet seuen times for your sinnes:
Leviticus 26:25	And I wil send a sword vpon you, that shall auenge the quarel of my couenant: and when ye are gathered in your cities, I wil send the pestilence among you, and ye shall be deliuered into the hand of the enemie.
Leviticus 26:26	When I shall breake the staffe of your bread, then ten women shall bake your breade in one ouen, and they shall deliuer your bread againe by weight, and ye shall eate, but not be satisfied.
Leviticus 26:27	Yet if ye will not for this obey mee, but walke against me stubburnly,
Leviticus 26:28	Then will I walke stubburnly in mine anger against you, and I will also chastice you seuen times more according to your sinnes.
Leviticus 26:29	And ye shall eate ye flesh of your sonnes, and the flesh of your daughters shall ye deuoure.
Leviticus 26:30	I will also destroy your hye places, and cut away your images, and cast your carkeises vpon the bodies of your idoles, and my soule shall abhorre you.
Leviticus 26:31	And I will make your cities desolate, and bring your Sanctuarie vnto nought, and will not smelll the sauour of your sweete odours.
Leviticus 26:32	I will also bring the land vnto a wildernes, and your enemies, which dwell therein, shalbe astonished thereat.
Leviticus 26:33	Also I wil scatter you among the heathen, and will drawe out a sworde after you, and your land shalbe waste, and your cities shalbe desolate.
Leviticus 26:34	Then shall the land inioy her Sabbaths, as long as it lieth voide, and yee shalbe in your enemies land: then shall the land rest, and enioy her Sabbaths.
Leviticus 26:35	All the dayes that it lieth voide, it shall rest, because it did not rest in your Sabbaths, when ye dwelt vpon it.
Leviticus 26:36	And vpon them that are left of you, I will send euen a faintnes into their hearts in ye land of their enemies, and the sounde of a leafeshaken shall chase them, and they shall flee as fleeing from a sword, and they shall fall, no man pursuing them.
Leviticus 26:37	They shall fall also one vpon another, as before a sword, though none pursue them, and ye shall not be able to stand before your enemies:
Leviticus 26:38	And ye shall perish among the heathen, and the land of your enemies shall eate you vp.
Leviticus 26:39	And they that are left of you, shall pine away for their iniquitie, in your enemies landes, and for the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away with them also.
Leviticus 26:40	Then they shall confesse their iniquitie, and the wickednes of their fathers for their trespasse, which they haue trespassed against mee, and also because they haue walked stubburnly against me.
Leviticus 26:41	Therefore I wil walke stubburnly against them, and bring them into the land of their enemies: so then their vncircumcised hearts shalbe humbled, and then they shalt willingly beare the punishment of their iniquitie.
Leviticus 26:42	Then I will remember my couenant with Iaakob, and my couenant also with Izhak, and also my couenant with Abraham will I remember, and will remember the land.
Leviticus 26:43	The land also in the meane season shalbe left of them, and shall enioye her Sabbaths while she lieth waste without them, but they shall willingly suffer the punishment of their iniquitie, because they despised my lawes, and because their soule abhorred mine ordinances.
Leviticus 26:44	Yet notwithstanding this, when they shalbe in the lande of their enemies, I wil not cast them away, neither will I abhorre them, to destroy them vtterly, nor to breake my couenant with them: for I am the Lord their God:
Leviticus 26:45	But I will remember for them the couenant of olde when I brought them out of ye land of Egypt in the sight of the heathen that I might be their God: I am the Lord.
Leviticus 26:46	These are the ordinances, and the iudgements, and the lawes, which the Lord made betweene him, and the children of Israel in mount Sinai, by the hand of Moses.
Leviticus 27:1	Moreouer the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Leviticus 27:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, If any man shall make a vowe of a person vnto the Lord, by thy estimation,
Leviticus 27:3	Then thy estimation shall bee thus: a male from twentie yeere olde vnto sixty yeere olde shalbe by thy estimation euen fifty shekels of siluer, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie.
Leviticus 27:4	But if it be a female, then thy valuation shall be thirtie shekels.
Leviticus 27:5	And from fiue yere old to twentie yere olde thy valuation shall be for the male twentie shekels, and for the female ten shekels.
Leviticus 27:6	But from a moneth old vnto fiue yere old, thy price of the male shall bee fiue shekels of siluer, and thy price of the female, three shekels of siluer.
Leviticus 27:7	And from sixty yeere olde and aboue, if he be a male, then thy price shalbe fifteene shekels, and for the female ten shekels.
Leviticus 27:8	But if he be poorer then thou hast esteemed him, then shall hee present himselfe before the Priest, and the Priest shall value him, according to the abilitie of him that vowed, so shall the Priest value him.
Leviticus 27:9	And if it be a beast, whereof men bring an offering vnto the Lord, all that one giueth of such vnto the Lord, shalbe holy.
Leviticus 27:10	He shall not alter it nor change it, a good for a badde, nor a badde for a good: and if hee change beast for beast, then both this and that, which was changed for it, shall be holy.
Leviticus 27:11	And if it be any vncleane beast, of which men do not offer a sacrifice vnto the Lord, hee shall then present the beast before the Priest.
Leviticus 27:12	And the Priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad: and as thou valuest it, which art the Priest, so shall it bee.
Leviticus 27:13	But if he will bye it againe, then hee shall giue the fift part of it more, aboue thy valuation.
Leviticus 27:14	Also whe a man shall dedicate his house to be holy vnto the Lord, then the Priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad, and as ye Priest shall prise it, so shall the value be.
Leviticus 27:15	But if he that sanctified it, will redeeme his house, then hee shall giue thereto the fift part of money more then thy estimation, and it shalbe his.
Leviticus 27:16	If also a man dedicate to the Lord any grounde of his inheritance, then shalt thou esteeme it according to the seede therof: an Homer of barlie seede shalbe at fiftie shekels of siluer.
Leviticus 27:17	If he dedicate his field immediatly from the yeere of Iubile, it shall bee worth as thou doest esteeme it.
Leviticus 27:18	But if hee dedicate his fielde after the Iubile, then the Priest shall recken him the money according to ye yeeres that remaine vnto the yere of Iubile, and it shalbe abated by thy estimation.
Leviticus 27:19	And if he that dedicateth it, will redeeme the fielde, then he shall put the fift parte of the price, that thou esteemedst it at, thereunto, and it shall remaine his.
Leviticus 27:20	And if he will not redeeme the fielde, but the Priest sell the fielde to another man, it shalbe redeemed no more.
Leviticus 27:21	But the field shalbe holy to the Lord, whe it goeth out in the Iubile, as a fielde separate from common vses: the possession thereof shall be the Priests.
Leviticus 27:22	If a man also dedicate vnto ye Lord a fielde which he hath bought, which is not of the groud of his inheritance,
Leviticus 27:23	Then the Priest shall set the price to him, as thou esteemest it, vnto the yeere of Iubile, and he shall giue thy price the same day, as a thing holy vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 27:24	But in the yeere of Iubile, the fielde shall returne vnto him, of whome it was bought: to him, I say, whose inheritance the land was.
Leviticus 27:25	And all thy valuation shall bee according to the shekel of the Sanctuarie: a shekel conteyneth twenty gerahs.
Leviticus 27:26	Notwithstanding the first borne of the beastes, because it is the Lordes first borne, none shall dedicate such, be it bullocke, or sheepe; for it is the Lords.
Leviticus 27:27	But if it be an vncleane beast, then he shall redeeme it by thy valuation, and giue the fift part more thereto: and if it be not redeemed, then it shalbe solde, according to thy estimation.
Leviticus 27:28	Notwithstanding, nothing separate from the common vse that a man doeth separate vnto the Lord of all that he hath (whether it bee man or beast, or lande of his inheritance) may be solde nor redeemed: for euery thing separate from the common vse is most holy vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 27:29	Nothing separate from the common vse, which shall be separate from man, shalbe redeemed, but dye the death.
Leviticus 27:30	Also all the tithe of the lande both of the seede of the ground, and of the fruite of the trees is the Lords: it is holy to the Lord.
Leviticus 27:31	But if a man will redeeme any of his tithe, he shall adde the fift part thereto.
Leviticus 27:32	And euery tithe of bullock, and of sheepe, and of all that goeth vnder the rod, the tenth shalbe holy vnto the Lord.
Leviticus 27:33	He shall not looke if it be good or bad, neither shall he change it: els if he change it, both it, and that it was changed withall, shalbe holy, and it shall not be redeemed.
Leviticus 27:34	These are the commandements which the Lord commanded by Moses vnto the children of Israel in mount Sinai.

===== BOOK: Luke =====
Luke 1:1	Forasmuch as many haue taken in hand to set foorth the storie of those things, whereof we are fully persuaded,
Luke 1:2	As they haue deliuered them vnto vs, which from the beginning saw them their selues, and were ministers of ye word,
Luke 1:3	It seemed good also to me (most noble Theophilus) assoone as I had searched out perfectly all things from the beginning, to write vnto thee thereof from point to point,
Luke 1:4	That thou mightest acknowledge the certaintie of those things, whereof thou hast bene instructed.
Luke 1:5	In the time of Herod King of Iudea, there was a certaine Priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abia: and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabet.
Luke 1:6	Both were iust before God, and walked in all the commandements and ordinances of the Lord, without reproofe.
Luke 1:7	And they had no childe, because that Elisabet was barren: and both were well stricken in age.
Luke 1:8	And it came to passe, as he executed the Priestes office before God, as his course came in order,
Luke 1:9	According to the custome of the Priests office, his lot was to burne incense, when he went into the Temple of the Lord.
Luke 1:10	And the whole multitude of the people were without in prayer, while the incense was burning.
Luke 1:11	Then appeared vnto him an Angel of the Lord standing at the right side of the altar of incense.
Luke 1:12	And when Zacharias sawe him, he was troubled, and feare fell vpon him.
Luke 1:13	But the Angel saide vnto him, Feare not, Zacharias: for thy prayer is heard, and thy wise Elisabet shall beare thee a sonne, and thou shalt call his name Iohn.
Luke 1:14	And thou shalt haue ioy and gladnes, and many shall reioyce at his birth.
Luke 1:15	For he shalbe great in the sight of the Lord, and shall neither drinke wine, nor strong drinke: and he shalbe filled with the holy Ghost, euen from his mothers wombe.
Luke 1:16	And many of the children of Israel shall he turne to their Lord God.
Luke 1:17	For he shall goe before him in the spirite and power of Elias, to turne the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisedome of the iust men, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.
Luke 1:18	Then Zacharias said vnto ye Angel, Whereby shall I knowe this? for I am an olde man, and my wife is of a great age.
Luke 1:19	And the Angell answered, and sayde vnto him, I am Gabriel that stand in the presence of God, and am sent to speake vnto thee, and to shew thee these good tidings.
Luke 1:20	And beholde, thou shalt be domme, and not be able to speake, vntill the day that these things be done, because thou beleeuedst not my words, which shalbe fulfilled in their season.
Luke 1:21	Now the people waited for Zacharias, and marueiled that he taried so long in the Temple.
Luke 1:22	And when hee came out, hee coulde not speake vnto them: then they perceiued that hee had seene a vision in the Temple: For he made signes vnto them, and remained domme.
Luke 1:23	And it came to passe, when the daies of his office were fulfilled, that he departed to his owne house.
Luke 1:24	And after those daies, his wife Elisabet conceiued, and hid her selfe fiue moneths, saying,
Luke 1:25	Thus hath the Lord dealt with me, in the daies wherein he looked on me, to take from me my rebuke among men.
Luke 1:26	And in the sixth moneth, the Angell Gabriel was sent from God vnto a citie of Galile, named Nazareth,
Luke 1:27	To a virgin affianced to a man whose name was Ioseph, of the house of Dauid, and the virgins name was Marie.
Luke 1:28	And the Angel went in vnto her, and said, Haile thou that art freely beloued: the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women.
Luke 1:29	And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and thought what maner of salutation that should be.
Luke 1:30	Then the Angel saide vnto her, Feare not, Marie: for thou hast found fauour with God.
Luke 1:31	For loe, thou shalt conceiue in thy wobe, and beare a sonne, and shalt call his name Iesus.
Luke 1:32	He shall be great, and shall be called the Sonne of the most High, and the Lord God shall giue vnto him the throne of his father Dauid.
Luke 1:33	And hee shall reigne ouer the house of Iacob for euer, and of his kingdome shall bee none ende.
Luke 1:34	Then sayde Marie vnto the Angel, How shall this be, seeing I knowe not man?
Luke 1:35	And the Angel answered, and said vnto her, The holy Ghost shall come vpon thee, and the power of the most High shall ouershadowe thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall bee borne of thee, shall be called the Sonne of God.
Luke 1:36	And behold, thy cousin Elisabet, she hath also conceiued a sonne in her olde age: and this is her sixt moneth, which was called barren.
Luke 1:37	For with God shall nothing be vnpossible.
Luke 1:38	Then Marie said, Behold the seruant of the Lord: be it vnto me according to thy woorde. So the Angel departed from her.
Luke 1:39	And Marie arose in those daies, and went into ye hil countrey with hast to a citie of Iuda,
Luke 1:40	And entred into the house of Zacharias, and saluted Elisabet.
Luke 1:41	And it came to passe, as Elisabet heard the salutation of Marie, the babe sprang in her bellie, and Elisabet was filled with the holy Ghost.
Luke 1:42	And she cried with a loud voice, and saide, Blessed art thou among women, because the fruit of thy wombe is blessed.
Luke 1:43	And whence commeth this to mee, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?
Luke 1:44	For loe, assoone as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine eares, the babe sprang in my bellie for ioye,
Luke 1:45	And blessed is shee that beleeued: for those things shall be perfourmed, which were tolde her from the Lord.
Luke 1:46	Then Marie sayde, My soule magnifieth the Lord,
Luke 1:47	And my spirite reioyceth in God my Sauiour.
Luke 1:48	For hee hath looked on the poore degree of his seruaunt: for beholde, from henceforth shall all ages call me blessed,
Luke 1:49	Because hee that is mightie, hath done for me great things, and holy is his Name.
Luke 1:50	And his mercie is from generation to generation on them that feare him.
Luke 1:51	Hee hath shewed strength with his arme: hee hath scattered the proude in the imagination of their hearts.
Luke 1:52	Hee hath put downe the mighty from their seates, and exalted them of lowe degree.
Luke 1:53	Hee hath filled the hungrie with good things, and sent away the rich emptie.
Luke 1:54	Hee hath vpholden Israel his seruaunt to be mindefull of his mercie
Luke 1:55	(As hee hath spoken to our fathers, to wit, to Abraham, and his seede) for euer.
Luke 1:56	And Marie abode with her about three moneths: after, shee returned to her owne house.
Luke 1:57	Nowe Elisabets time was fulfilled, that shee should be deliuered, and shee brought foorth a sonne.
Luke 1:58	And her neighbours, and cousins heard tell howe the Lord had shewed his great mercie vpon her, and they reioyced with her.
Luke 1:59	And it was so that on the eight day they came to circumcise the babe, and called him Zacharias after the name of his father.
Luke 1:60	But his mother answered, and saide, Not so, but he shalbe called Iohn.
Luke 1:61	And they saide vnto her, There is none of thy kindred, that is named with this name.
Luke 1:62	Then they made signes to his father, howe he would haue him called.
Luke 1:63	So hee asked for writing tables, and wrote, saying, His name is Iohn, and they marueiled all.
Luke 1:64	And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue, and he spake and praised God.
Luke 1:65	Then feare came on all them that dwelt neere vnto them, and all these woordes were noised abroade throughout all the hill countrey of Iudea.
Luke 1:66	And al they that heard them, laid them vp in their hearts, saying, What maner childe shall this be! and the hand of the Lord was with him.
Luke 1:67	Then his father Zacharias was filled with the holy Ghost, and prophesied, saying,
Luke 1:68	Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, because he hath visited and redeemed his people,
Luke 1:69	And hath raised vp the horne of saluation vnto vs, in the house of his seruant Dauid,
Luke 1:70	As he spake by ye mouth of his holy Prophets, which were since the world began, saying,
Luke 1:71	That he would sende vs deliuerance from our enemies, and from the hands of all that hate vs,
Luke 1:72	That he might shewe mercie towards our fathers, and remember his holy couenant,
Luke 1:73	And the othe which he sware to our father Abraham.
Luke 1:74	Which was, that he would graunt vnto vs, that we being deliuered out of the handes of our enemies, should serue him without feare,
Luke 1:75	All the daies of our life, in holinesse and righteousnesse before him.
Luke 1:76	And thou, babe, shalt be called the Prophet of the most High: for thou shalt goe before the face of the Lord, to prepare his waies,
Luke 1:77	And to giue knowledge of saluation vnto his people, by the remission of their sinnes,
Luke 1:78	Through ye tender mercy of our God, wherby the day spring from an hie hath visited vs,
Luke 1:79	To giue light to them that sit in darknes, and in the shadow of death, and to guide our feete into the way of peace.
Luke 1:80	And the childe grewe, and waxed strong in spirit, and was in the wildernesse, til the day came that he should shewe him selfe vnto Israel.
Luke 2:1	And it came to passe in those dayes, that there came a decree from Augustus Cesar, that all the world should be taxed.
Luke 2:2	(This first taxing was made when Cyrenius was gouernour of Syria.)
Luke 2:3	Therefore went all to be taxed, euery man to his owne Citie.
Luke 2:4	And Ioseph also went vp from Galile out of a citie called Nazareth, into Iudea, vnto the citie of Dauid, which is called Beth-leem (because he was of the house and linage of Dauid,)
Luke 2:5	To bee taxed with Marie that was giuen him to wife, which was with childe.
Luke 2:6	And so it was, that while they were there, the daies were accomplished that shee shoulde be deliuered,
Luke 2:7	And she brought foorth her first begotten sonne, and wrapped him in swadling clothes, and laide him in a cratch, because there was no roome for them in the ynne.
Luke 2:8	And there were in the same countrey shepheards, abiding in the fielde, and keeping watch by night ouer their flocke.
Luke 2:9	And loe, the Angel of the Lord came vpon them, and the glorie of the Lord shone about them, and they were sore afraide.
Luke 2:10	Then the Angel saide vnto them, Be not afraid: for behold, I bring you glad tidings of great ioy, that shalbe to all the people,
Luke 2:11	That is, that vnto you is borne this day in the citie of Dauid, a Sauiour, which is Christ the Lord.
Luke 2:12	And this shalbe a signe to you, Yee shall finde the babe swadled, and laid in a cratch.
Luke 2:13	And straightway there was with the Angel a multitude of heauenly souldiers, praising God, and saying,
Luke 2:14	Glory be to God in the high heauens, and peace in earth, and towards men good will.
Luke 2:15	And it came to passe whe the Angels were gone away from them into heauen, that the shepheards sayde one to another, Let vs goe then vnto Beth-leem, and see this thing that is come to passe which the Lord hath shewed vnto vs.
Luke 2:16	So they came with haste, and founde both Marie and Ioseph, and the babe laid in the cratch.
Luke 2:17	And when they had seene it, they published abroade the thing, that was tolde them of that childe.
Luke 2:18	And all that heard it, wondred at ye things which were tolde them of the shepheards.
Luke 2:19	But Mary kept all those sayings, and pondred them in her heart.
Luke 2:20	And the shepheardes returned glorifiyng and praising God, for all that they had heard and seene as it was spoken vnto them.
Luke 2:21	And when the eight daies were accomplished, that they shoulde circumcise the childe, his name was then called Iesus, which was named of the Angell, before he was conceiued in the wombe.
Luke 2:22	And when the daies of her purification after the Lawe of Moses were accomplished, they brought him to Hierusalem, to present him to the Lord,
Luke 2:23	(As it is written in the Lawe of the Lord, Euery man childe that first openeth ye wombe, shalbe called holy to the Lord)
Luke 2:24	And to giue an oblation, as it is commanded in the Lawe of the Lord, a paire of turtle doues, or two yong pigeons.
Luke 2:25	And behold, there was a man in Hierusalem, whose name was Simeon: this man was iust, and feared God, and waited for the consolation of Israel, and the holy Ghost was vpon him.
Luke 2:26	And it was declared to him from God by the holy Ghost, that he shoulde not see death, before he had seene that Anointed of the Lord.
Luke 2:27	And he came by the motion of the spirit into the Temple, and when the parents brought in the babe Iesus, to do for him after the custome of the Lawe,
Luke 2:28	Then hee tooke him in his armes, and praised God, and sayd,
Luke 2:29	Lord, nowe lettest thou thy seruaunt depart in peace, according to thy woorde,
Luke 2:30	For mine eyes haue seene thy saluation,
Luke 2:31	Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people,
Luke 2:32	A light to be reueiled to the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel.
Luke 2:33	And Ioseph and his mother marueiled at those things, which were spoken touching him.
Luke 2:34	And Simeon blessed them, and saide vnto Mary his mother, Beholde, this childe is appointed for the fall and rising againe of many in Israel, and for a signe which shalbe spoken against,
Luke 2:35	(Yea and a sworde shall pearce through thy soule) that the thoughts of many heartes may be opened.
Luke 2:36	And there was a Prophetesse, one Anna the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser, which was of a great age, after she had liued with an husband seuen yeeres from her virginitie:
Luke 2:37	And she was widowe about foure score and foure yeeres, and went not out of the Temple, but serued God with fastings and prayers, night and day.
Luke 2:38	She then coming at the same instant vpon them, confessed likewise the Lord, and spake of him to all that looked for redemption in Hierusalem.
Luke 2:39	And when they had performed all thinges according to the lawe of the Lord, they returned into Galile to their owne citie Nazareth.
Luke 2:40	And the childe grewe, and waxed strong in Spirit, and was filled with wisedome, and the grace of God was with him.
Luke 2:41	Nowe his parents went to Hierusalem euery yeere, at the feast of the Passeouer.
Luke 2:42	And when hee was twelue yeere olde, and they were come vp to Hierusalem, after the custome of the feast,
Luke 2:43	And had finished the dayes thereof, as they returned, the childe Iesus remained in Hierusalem, and Ioseph knew not, nor his mother,
Luke 2:44	But they supposing, that he had bene in the company, went a dayes iourney, and sought him among their kinsfolke, and acquaintance.
Luke 2:45	And when they found him not, they turned backe to Hierusalem, and sought him.
Luke 2:46	And it came to passe three dayes after, that they found him in the Temple, sitting in the mids of the doctours, both hearing them, and asking them questions:
Luke 2:47	And all that heard him, were astonied at his vnderstanding and answeres.
Luke 2:48	So when they sawe him, they were amased, and his mother said vnto him, Sonne, why hast thou thus dealt with vs? beholde, thy father and I haue sought thee with very heauie hearts.
Luke 2:49	Then said he vnto them, Howe is it that ye sought me? knewe ye not that I must goe about my Fathers busines?
Luke 2:50	But they vnderstoode not the word that he spake to them.
Luke 2:51	Then hee went downe with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subiect to them: and his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.
Luke 2:52	And Iesus increased in wisedome, and stature, and in fauour with God and men.
Luke 3:1	Nowe in the fifteenth yeere of the reigne of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being gouernour of Iudea, and Herod being Tetrarch of Galile, and his brother Philip Tetrarch of Iturea, and of the countrey of Trachonitis, and Lysanias the Tetrarch of Abilene,
Luke 3:2	(When Annas and Caiaphas were the hie Priestes) the worde of God came vnto Iohn, the sonne of Zacharias in the wildernes.
Luke 3:3	And hee came into all the coastes about Iordan, preaching the baptisme of repentance for the remission of sinnes,
Luke 3:4	As it is written in the booke of the sayings of Esaias the Prophet, which saith, The voyce of him that crieth in the wildernes is, Prepare ye the way of the Lord: make his paths straight.
Luke 3:5	Euery valley shalbe filled, and euery mountaine and hill shall be brought lowe, and crooked things shalbe made straight, and the rough wayes shalbe made smoothe.
Luke 3:6	And all flesh shall see the saluation of God.
Luke 3:7	Then said he to the people that were come out to be baptized of him, O generations of vipers, who hath forewarned you to flee from the wrath to come?
Luke 3:8	Bring foorth therefore fruites worthy amendment of life, and beginne not to say with your selues, We haue Abraham to our father: for I say vnto you, that God is able of these stones to raise vp children vnto Abraham.
Luke 3:9	Nowe also is the axe layed vnto the roote of the trees: therefore euery tree which bringeth not foorth good fruite, shalbe hewen downe, and cast into the fire.
Luke 3:10	Then the people asked him, saying, What shall we doe then?
Luke 3:11	And he answered, and said vnto them, He that hath two coates, let him part with him that hath none: and hee that hath meate, let him doe likewise.
Luke 3:12	Then came there Publicanes also to bee baptized, and saide vnto him, Master, what shall we doe?
Luke 3:13	And hee saide vnto them, Require no more then that which is appointed vnto you.
Luke 3:14	The souldiers likewise demaunded of him, saying, And what shall we doe? And he saide vnto them, Doe violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely, and be content with your wages.
Luke 3:15	As the people waited, and all men mused in their heartes of Iohn, if he were not that Christ,
Luke 3:16	Iohn answered, and saide to them all, In deede I baptize you with water, but one stronger then I, commeth, whose shoes latchet I am not worthy to vnloose: hee will baptize you with the holy Ghost, and with fire.
Luke 3:17	Whose fanne is in his hande, and hee will make cleane his floore, and will gather the wheate into his garner, but the chaffe will hee burne vp with fire that neuer shalbe quenched.
Luke 3:18	Thus then exhorting with many other things, he preached vnto the people.
Luke 3:19	But when Herod the Tetrarch was rebuked of him, for Herodias his brother Philips wife, and for all the euils which Herod had done,
Luke 3:20	He added yet this aboue all, that he shut vp Iohn in prison.
Luke 3:21	Nowe it came to passe, as all the people were baptized, and that Iesus was baptized and did pray, that the heauen was opened:
Luke 3:22	And the holy Ghost came downe in a bodily shape like a doue, vpon him, and there was a voyce from heauen, saying, Thou art my beloued Sonne: in thee I am well pleased.
Luke 3:23	And Iesus himselfe began to bee about thirtie yeere of age, being as men supposed the sonne of Ioseph, which was the sonne of Eli,
Luke 3:24	The sonne of Matthat, the sonne of Leui, the sonne of Melchi, the sonne of Ianna, the sonne of Ioseph,
Luke 3:25	The sonne of Mattathias, the sonne of Amos, the sonne of Naum, the sonne of Esli, the sonne of Nagge,
Luke 3:26	The sonne of Maath, the sonne of Mattathias, the sonne of Semei, the sonne of Ioseph, the sonne of Iuda,
Luke 3:27	The sonne of Ioanna, the sonne of Rhesa, the sonne of Zorobabel, the sonne of Salathiel, the sonne of Neri,
Luke 3:28	The sonne of Melchi, the sonne of Addi, the sonne of Cosam, the sonne of Elmodam, the sonne of Er,
Luke 3:29	The sonne of Iose, the sonne of Eliezer, the sonne of Iorim, the sonne of Matthat, the son of Leui,
Luke 3:30	The sonne of Simeon, the sonne of Iuda, the sonne of Ioseph, the sonne of Ionan, the sonne of Eliacim,
Luke 3:31	The sonne of Melea, the sonne of Mainan, the sonne of Mattatha, the sonne of Nathan, the sonne of Dauid,
Luke 3:32	The sonne of Iesse, the sonne of Obed, the sonne of Booz, the sonne of Salmon, the sonne of Naasson,
Luke 3:33	The sonne of Aminadab, the sonne of Aram, the sonne of Esrom, the sonne of Phares, the sonne of Iuda,
Luke 3:34	The sonne of Iacob, the sonne of Isaac, the sonne of Abraham, the sonne of Thara, the sonne of Nachor,
Luke 3:35	The sonne of Saruch, the sonne of Ragau, the sonne of Phalec, the sonne of Eber, the sonne of Sala,
Luke 3:36	The sonne of Cainan, the sonne of Arphaxad, the sonne of Sem, the sonne of Noe, the sonne of Lamech,
Luke 3:37	The sonne of Mathusala, the sonne of Enoch, the sonne of Iared, the sonne of Maleleel, the sonne of Cainan,
Luke 3:38	The sonne of Enos, the sonne of Seth, the sonne of Adam, the sonne of God.
Luke 4:1	And Iesus full of the holy Ghost returned from Iordan, and was led by that Spirit into the wildernes,
Luke 4:2	And was there fourtie dayes tempted of the deuil, and in those dayes he did eate nothing: but when they were ended, he afterward was hungry.
Luke 4:3	Then the deuil saide vnto him, If thou be the Sonne of God, commaund this stone that it be made bread.
Luke 4:4	But Iesus answered him, saying, It is written, That man shall not liue by bread only, but by euery word of God.
Luke 4:5	Then the deuill tooke him vp into an high mountaine, and shewed him all the kingdomes of the world, in the twinkeling of an eye.
Luke 4:6	And the deuill saide vnto him, All this power will I giue thee, and the glory of those kingdomes: for that is deliuered to mee: and to whomsoeuer I will, I giue it.
Luke 4:7	If thou therefore wilt worship mee, they shalbe all thine.
Luke 4:8	But Iesus answered him, and saide, Hence from mee, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him alone thou shalt serue.
Luke 4:9	Then hee brought him to Hierusalem, and set him on a pinacle of the Temple, and said vnto him, If thou be the Sonne of God, cast thy selfe downe from hence,
Luke 4:10	For it is written, That hee will giue his Angels charge ouer thee to keepe thee:
Luke 4:11	And with their handes they shall lift thee vp, least at any time thou shouldest dash thy foote against a stone.
Luke 4:12	And Iesus answered, and said vnto him, It is said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
Luke 4:13	And when the deuil had ended all the tentation, he departed from him for a litle season.
Luke 4:14	And Iesus returned by the power of the spirite into Galile: and there went a fame of him throughout all the region round about.
Luke 4:15	For he taught in their Synagogues, and was honoured of all men.
Luke 4:16	And hee came to Nazareth where hee had bene brought vp, and (as his custome was) went into the Synagogue on the Sabbath day, and stoode vp to reade.
Luke 4:17	And there was deliuered vnto him the booke of the Prophet Esaias: and when hee had opened the booke, hee founde the place, where it was written,
Luke 4:18	The Spirit of the Lord is vpon mee, because he hath anoynted me, that I should preach the Gospel to the poore: he hath sent mee, that I should heale the broken hearted, that I should preach deliuerance to the captiues, and recouering of sight to the blinde, that I should set at libertie them that are bruised:
Luke 4:19	And that I should preache the acceptable yeere of the Lord.
Luke 4:20	And hee closed the booke, and gaue it againe to the minister, and sate downe: and the eyes of all that were in the Synagogue were fastened on him.
Luke 4:21	Then he began to say vnto them, This day is the Scripture fulfilled in your eares.
Luke 4:22	And all bare him witnes, and wondered at the gracious wordes, which proceeded out of his mouth, and said, Is not this Iosephs sonne?
Luke 4:23	Then he said vnto them, Ye will surely say vnto mee this prouerbe, Physician, heale thy selfe: whatsoeuer we haue heard done in Capernaum, doe it here likewise in thine owne countrey.
Luke 4:24	And he saide, Verely I say vnto you, No Prophet is accepted in his owne countrey.
Luke 4:25	But I tell you of a trueth, many widowes were in Israel in the dayes of Elias, when heauen was shut three yeres and sixe moneths, when great famine was throughout all the land:
Luke 4:26	But vnto none of them was Elias sent, saue into Sarepta, a citie of Sidon, vnto a certaine widowe.
Luke 4:27	Also many lepers were in Israel, in the time of Eliseus the Prophet: yet none of them was made cleane, sauing Naaman the Syrian.
Luke 4:28	Then all that were in the Synagogue, when they heard it, were filled with wrath,
Luke 4:29	And rose vp, and thrust him out of the citie, and led him vnto the edge of the hil, whereon their citie was built, to cast him downe headlong.
Luke 4:30	But he passed through the middes of them, and went his way,
Luke 4:31	And came downe into Capernaum a citie of Galile, and there taught them on the Sabbath dayes.
Luke 4:32	And they were astonied at his doctrine: for his worde was with authoritie.
Luke 4:33	And in the Synagogue there was a man which had a spirit of an vncleane deuill, which cryed with a loude voyce,
Luke 4:34	Saying, Oh, what haue we to doe with thee, thou Iesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy vs? I know who thou art, euen the holy one of God.
Luke 4:35	And Iesus rebuked him, saying, Holde thy peace, and come out of him. Then the deuill throwing him in the middes of them, came out of him, and hurt him nothing at all.
Luke 4:36	So feare came on them all, and they spake among themselues, saying, What thing is this: for with authoritie and power he commaundeth the foule spirits, and they come out?
Luke 4:37	And ye fame of him spred abroad throughout all the places of the countrey round about.
Luke 4:38	And he rose vp, and came out of the Synagogue, and entred into Simons house. And Simons wiues mother was taken with a great feuer, and they required him for her.
Luke 4:39	Then he stoode ouer her, and rebuked the feuer, and it left her, and immediatly she arose, and ministred vnto them.
Luke 4:40	Now at the sunne setting, all they that had sicke folkes of diuers diseases, brought them vnto him, and he layd his hands on euery one of them, and healed them.
Luke 4:41	And deuils also came out of many, crying, and saying, Thou art that Christ that Sonne of God: but he rebuked them, and suffered them not to say that they knewe him to be that Christ.
Luke 4:42	And when it was day, he departed, and went foorth into a desart place, and the people sought him, and came to him, and kept him that he should not depart from them.
Luke 4:43	But he sayd vnto them, Surely I must also preach the kingdome of God to other cities: for therefore am I sent.
Luke 4:44	And hee preached in the Synagogues of Galile.
Luke 5:1	Then it came to passe, as the people preassed vpon him to heare the word of God, that he stoode by the lake of Gennesaret,
Luke 5:2	And sawe two shippes stand by the lakes side, but the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing their nettes.
Luke 5:3	And he entred into one of the ships, which was Simons, and required him that he would thrust off a litle from the land: and he sate downe, and taught the people out of the ship.
Luke 5:4	Now when he had left speaking, he sayd vnto Simon, Lanch out into the deepe, and let downe your nettes to make a draught.
Luke 5:5	Then Simon answered, and sayd vnto him, Master, we haue trauailed sore all night, and haue taken nothing: neuerthelesse at thy worde I will let downe the net.
Luke 5:6	And when they had so done, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes, so that their net brake.
Luke 5:7	And they beckened to their parteners, which were in the other ship, that they shoulde come and helpe them, who came then, and filled both the ships, that they did sinke.
Luke 5:8	Now when Simon Peter saw it, he fel down at Iesus knees, saying, Lord, go from me: for I am a sinfull man.
Luke 5:9	For he was vtterly astonied, and all that were with him, for the draught of fishes which they tooke.
Luke 5:10	And so was also Iames and Iohn the sonnes of Zebedeus, which were companions with Simon. Then Iesus sayde vnto Simon, Feare not: from henceforth thou shalt catch men.
Luke 5:11	And when they had brought the ships to land, they forsooke all, and followed him.
Luke 5:12	Nowe it came to passe, as he was in a certaine citie, beholde, there was a man full of leprosie, and when he sawe Iesus, he fell on his face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me cleane.
Luke 5:13	So he stretched forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will, be thou cleane. And immediately the leprosie departed from him.
Luke 5:14	And he commanded him that hee should tell it no man: but Go, sayth he, and shew thy selfe to the Priest, and offer for thy clensing, as Moses hath commanded, for a witnes vnto them.
Luke 5:15	But so much more went there a fame abroad of him, and great multitudes came together to heare, and to be healed of him of their infirmities.
Luke 5:16	But he kept himselfe apart in the wildernes, and prayed.
Luke 5:17	And it came to passe, on a certaine day, as he was teaching, that the Pharises and doctours of the Law sate by, which were come out of euery towne of Galile, and Iudea, and Hierusalem, and the power of the Lord was in him to heale them.
Luke 5:18	Then beholde, men brought a man lying in a bed, which was taken with a palsie, and they sought meanes to bring him in, and to lay him before him.
Luke 5:19	And when they could not finde by what way they might bring him in, because of the preasse, they went vp on the house, and let him downe through the tyling, bed and all, in the middes before Iesus.
Luke 5:20	And when he sawe their faith, he sayd vnto him, Man, thy sinnes are forgiuen thee.
Luke 5:21	Then the Scribes and the Pharises began to reason, saying, Who is this that speaketh blasphemies? who can forgiue sinnes, but God onely?
Luke 5:22	But when Iesus perceiued their reasoning, he answered, and sayd vnto them, What reason ye in your hearts?
Luke 5:23	Whether is easier to say, Thy sinnes are forgiuen thee, or to say, Rise and walke?
Luke 5:24	But that ye may know that that Sonne of man hath authoritie to forgiue sinnes in earth, (he sayd vnto the sicke of the palsie) I say to thee, Arise: take vp thy bed, and goe to thine house.
Luke 5:25	And immediatly he rose vp before them, and tooke vp his bed whereon he lay, and departed to his owne house, praysing God.
Luke 5:26	And they were all amased, and praysed God, and were filled with feare, saying, Doutlesse we haue seene strange things to day.
Luke 5:27	And after that, he went foorth and sawe a Publicane named Leui, sitting at the receite of custome, and sayd vnto him, Follow me.
Luke 5:28	And he left all, rose vp, and folowed him.
Luke 5:29	Then Leui made him a great feast in his owne house, where there was a great company of Publicanes, and of other that sate at table with them.
Luke 5:30	But they that were Scribes and Pharises among them, murmured against his disciples, saying, Why eate ye and drinke ye with Publicanes and sinners?
Luke 5:31	Then Iesus answered, and sayd vnto them, They that are whole, neede not the Physician, but they that are sicke.
Luke 5:32	I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
Luke 5:33	Then they said vnto him, Why do the disciples of Iohn fast often, and pray, and the disciples of the Pharises also, but thine eate and drinke?
Luke 5:34	And he said vnto them, Can ye make the children of the wedding chamber to fast, as long as the bridegrome is with them?
Luke 5:35	But the dayes will come, euen when the bridegrome shalbe taken away from them: then shall they fast in those dayes.
Luke 5:36	Againe he spake also vnto them a parable, No man putteth a piece of a newe garment into an olde vesture: for then the newe renteth it, and the piece taken out of the newe, agreeth not with the olde.
Luke 5:37	Also no man powreth newe wine into olde vessels: for then ye new wine wil breake the vessels, and it will runne out, and the vessels will perish:
Luke 5:38	But newe wine must be powred into newe vessels: so both are preserued.
Luke 5:39	Also no man that drinketh olde wine, straightway desireth newe: for he sayth, The olde is more profitable.
Luke 6:1	And it came to passe on a second solemne Sabbath, that hee went through the corne fieldes, and his disciples plucked the eares of corne, and did eate, and rub them in their hands.
Luke 6:2	And certaine of the Pharises sayde vnto them, Why doe ye that which is not lawfull to doe on the Sabbath dayes?
Luke 6:3	Then Iesus answered them, and said, Haue ye not read this, that Dauid did when he himselfe was an hungred, and they which were with him,
Luke 6:4	Howe he went into the house of God, and tooke, and ate the shewbread, and gaue also to them which were with him, which was not lawful to eate, but for the Priests onely?
Luke 6:5	And he sayd vnto them, The Sonne of man is Lord also of the Sabbath day.
Luke 6:6	It came to passe also on another Sabbath, that hee entred into the Synagogue, and taught, and there was a man, whose right hand was dryed vp.
Luke 6:7	And the Scribes and Pharises watched him, whether he would heale on the Sabbath day, that they might finde an accusation against him.
Luke 6:8	But he knew their thoughts, and sayd to the man which had the withered hand, Arise, and stand vp in the middes. And hee arose, and stoode vp.
Luke 6:9	Then sayd Iesus vnto them, I will aske you a question, Whether is it lawfull on the Sabbath dayes to doe good, or to doe euill? to saue life, or to destroy?
Luke 6:10	And he behelde them all in compasse, and sayd vnto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he did so, and his hand was restored againe, as whole as the other.
Luke 6:11	Then they were filled full of madnes, and communed one with another, what they might doe to Iesus.
Luke 6:12	And it came to passe in those dayes, that he went into a mountaine to praye, and spent the night in prayer to God.
Luke 6:13	And when it was day, he called his disciples, and of them he chose twelue which also he called Apostles.
Luke 6:14	(Simon whome he named also Peter, and Andrew his brother, Iames and Iohn, Philippe and Bartlemewe:
Luke 6:15	Matthewe and Thomas: Iames the sonne of Alpheus, and Simon called Zelous,
Luke 6:16	Iudas Iames brother, and Iudas Iscariot, which also was the traitour.)
Luke 6:17	Then he came downe with them, and stood in a plaine place, with the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Iudea, and Hierusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyrus and Sidon, which came to heare him, and to be healed of their diseases:
Luke 6:18	And they that were vexed with foule spirits, and they were healed.
Luke 6:19	And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went vertue out of him, and healed them all.
Luke 6:20	And hee lifted vp his eyes vpon his disciples, and sayd, Blessed be ye poore: for yours is the kingdome of God.
Luke 6:21	Blessed are ye that hunger nowe: for ye shalbe satisfied: blessed are ye that weepe now: for ye shall laugh.
Luke 6:22	Blessed are ye when men hate you, and when they separate you, and reuile you, and put out your name as euill, for the Sonne of mans sake.
Luke 6:23	Reioyce ye in that day, and be glad: for beholde, your reward is great in heauen: for after this maner their fathers did to the Prophets.
Luke 6:24	But wo be to you that are rich: for ye haue receiued your consolation.
Luke 6:25	Wo be to you that are full: for ye shall hunger. Wo be to you that now laugh: for ye shall wayle and weepe.
Luke 6:26	Wo be to you when all men speake well of you: for so did their fathers to the false prophets.
Luke 6:27	But I say vnto you which heare, Loue your enemies: doe well to them which hate you.
Luke 6:28	Blesse them that curse you, and pray for them which hurt you.
Luke 6:29	And vnto him that smiteth thee on ye one cheeke, offer also the other: and him that taketh away thy cloke, forbid not to take thy coate also.
Luke 6:30	Giue to euery man that asketh of thee: and of him that taketh away the things that be thine, aske them not againe.
Luke 6:31	And as ye would that men should doe to you, so doe ye to them likewise.
Luke 6:32	For if yee loue them which loue you, what thanke shall ye haue? for euen the sinners loue those that loue them.
Luke 6:33	And if ye do good for them which do good for you, what thanke shall ye haue? for euen the sinners doe the same.
Luke 6:34	And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receiue, what thanke shall yee haue? for euen the sinners lend to sinners, to receiue the like.
Luke 6:35	Wherefore loue ye your enemies, and doe good, and lend, looking for nothing againe, and your rewarde shalbe great, and ye shalbe the children of the most High: for he is kinde vnto the vnkinde, and to the euill.
Luke 6:36	Be ye therefore mercifull, as your Father also is mercifull.
Luke 6:37	Iudge not, and ye shall not be iudged: condemne not, and ye shall not bee condemned: forgiue, and ye shalbe forgiuen.
Luke 6:38	Giue, and it shalbe giuen vnto you: a good measure, pressed downe, shaken together and running ouer shall men giue into your bosome: for with what measure ye mete, with the same shall men mete to you againe.
Luke 6:39	And he spake a parable vnto them, Can the blinde leade the blinde? shall they not both fall into the ditche?
Luke 6:40	The disciple is not aboue his master: but whosoeuer will be a perfect disciple, shall bee as his master.
Luke 6:41	And why seest thou a mote in thy brothers eye, and considerest not the beame that is in thine owne eye?
Luke 6:42	Either howe canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou seest not the beame that is in thine owne eye? Hypocrite, cast out the beame out of thine owne eye first, and then shalt thou see, perfectly to pull out the mote that is in thy brothers eye.
Luke 6:43	For it is not a good tree that bringeth foorth euill fruite: neither an euill tree, that bringeth foorth good fruite.
Luke 6:44	For euery tree is knowen by his owne fruite: for neither of thornes gather men figges, nor of bushes gather they grapes.
Luke 6:45	A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth foorth good, and an euill man out of the euill treasure of his heart bringeth foorth euill: for of the aboundance of the heart his mouth speaketh.
Luke 6:46	But why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I speake?
Luke 6:47	Whosoeuer commeth to mee, and heareth my wordes, and doeth the same, I will shewe you to whome he is like:
Luke 6:48	He is like a man which built an house, and digged deepe, and layde the fundation on a rocke: and when the waters arose, the flood beat vpon that house, and coulde not shake it: for it was grounded vpon a rocke.
Luke 6:49	But hee that heareth and doeth not, is like a man that built an house vpon the earth without foundation, against which the flood did beate, and it fell by and by: and the fall of that house was great.
Luke 7:1	When hee had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people, he entred into Capernaum.
Luke 7:2	And a certaine Ceturions seruant was sicke and readie to die, which was deare vnto him.
Luke 7:3	And when he heard of Iesus, hee sent vnto him the Elders of the Iewes, beseeching him that he would come, and heale his seruant.
Luke 7:4	So they came to Iesus, and besought him instantly, saying that hee was worthy that hee should doe this for him:
Luke 7:5	For he loueth, said they, our nation, and he hath built vs a Synagogue.
Luke 7:6	Then Iesus went with them: but when he was now not farre from the house, the Centurion sent friendes to him, saying vnto him, Lord, trouble not thy selfe: for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter vnder my roofe:
Luke 7:7	Wherefore I thought not my selfe worthy to come vnto thee: but say the word, and my seruant shalbe whole:
Luke 7:8	For I likewise am a man set vnder authoritie, and haue vnder mee souldiers, and I say vnto one, Goe, and he goeth: and to another, Come, and hee commeth: and to my seruant, Doe this, and he doeth it.
Luke 7:9	When Iesus heard these things, he marueiled at him, and turned him, and said to the people, that followed him, I say vnto you, I haue not found so great faith, no not in Israel.
Luke 7:10	And when they that were sent, turned backe to the house, they founde the seruant that was sicke, whole.
Luke 7:11	And it came to passe the day after, that he went into a citie called Nain, and many of his disciples went with him, and a great multitude.
Luke 7:12	Nowe when hee came neere to the gate of the citie, behold, there was a dead man caried out, who was the onely begotten sonne of his mother, which was a widowe, and much people of the citie was with her.
Luke 7:13	And when the Lord sawe her, he had compassion on her, and said vnto her, Weepe not.
Luke 7:14	And he went and touched the coffin (and they that bare him, stoode still) and he said, Yong man, I say vnto thee, Arise.
Luke 7:15	And he that was dead, sate vp, and began to speake, and he deliuered him to his mother.
Luke 7:16	Then there came a feare on them all, and they glorified God, saying, A great Prophet is risen among vs, and God hath visited his people.
Luke 7:17	And this rumour of him went foorth throughout all Iudea, and throughout all the region round about.
Luke 7:18	And the disciples of Iohn shewed him of all these things.
Luke 7:19	So Iohn called vnto him two certaine men of his disciples, and sent them to Iesus, saying, Art thou hee that should come, or shall we waite for another?
Luke 7:20	And when the men were come vnto him, they said, Iohn Baptist hath sent vs vnto thee, saying, Art thou hee that should come, or shall we waite for another?
Luke 7:21	And at that time, he cured many of their sickenesses, and plagues, and of euill spirites, and vnto many blinde men he gaue sight freely.
Luke 7:22	And Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, Goe your wayes and shewe Iohn, what things ye haue seene and heard: that the blinde see, the halt goe, the lepers are cleansed, the deafe heare, the dead are raised, and the poore receiue the Gospel.
Luke 7:23	And blessed is hee, that shall not be offended in me.
Luke 7:24	And when the messengers of Iohn were departed, hee began to speake vnto the people, of Iohn, What went ye out into the wildernes to see? A reede shaken with the winde?
Luke 7:25	But what went ye out to see? A man clothed in soft rayment? beholde, they which are gorgeously apparelled, and liue delicately, are in Kings courtes.
Luke 7:26	But what went ye foorth to see? A Prophet? yea, I say to you, and greater then a Prophet.
Luke 7:27	This is he of whom it is written, Beholde, I sende my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
Luke 7:28	For I say vnto you, there is no greater Prophet then Iohn, among them that are begotten of women: neuerthelesse, hee that is the least in the kingdome of God, is greater then he.
Luke 7:29	Then all the people that heard, and the Publicanes iustified God, being baptized with the baptisme of Iohn.
Luke 7:30	But the Pharises and the expounders of the Law despised the counsell of God against themselues, and were not baptized of him.
Luke 7:31	And the Lord saide, Whereunto shall I liken the men of this generation? and what thing are they like vnto?
Luke 7:32	They are like vnto litle children sitting in the market place, and crying one to another, and saying, We haue piped vnto you, and ye haue not daunced: we haue mourned to you, and ye haue not wept.
Luke 7:33	For Iohn Baptist came, neither eating bread, nor drinking wine: and ye say, He hath the deuil.
Luke 7:34	The Sonne of man is come, and eateth and drinketh: and ye say, Beholde, a man which is a glutton, and a drinker of wine, a friend of Publicanes and sinners:
Luke 7:35	But wisdome is iustified of all her children.
Luke 7:36	And one of the Pharises desired him that hee would eate with him: and hee went into the Pharises house, and sate downe at table.
Luke 7:37	And beholde, a woman in the citie, which was a sinner, when she knewe that Iesus sate at table in the Pharises house, shee brought a boxe of oyntment.
Luke 7:38	And shee stoode at his feete behinde him weeping, and began to wash his feete with teares, and did wipe them with the heares of her head, and kissed his feete, and anoynted them with the oyntment.
Luke 7:39	Nowe when the Pharise which bade him, saw it, he spake within himselfe, saying, If this man were a Prophet, hee woulde surely haue knowen who, and what maner of woman this is which toucheth him: for she is a sinner.
Luke 7:40	And Iesus answered, and saide vnto him, Simon, I haue somewhat to say vnto thee. And he said, Master, say on.
Luke 7:41	There was a certaine lender which had two detters: the one ought fiue hundreth pence, and the other fiftie:
Luke 7:42	When they had nothing to pay, he forgaue them both: Which of them therefore, tell mee, will loue him most?
Luke 7:43	Simon answered, and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgaue most. And he said vnto him, Thou hast truely iudged.
Luke 7:44	Then he turned to the woman, and said vnto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entred into thine house, and thou gauest mee no water to my feete: but she hath washed my feete with teares, and wiped them with the heares of her head.
Luke 7:45	Thou gauest me no kisse: but she, since the time I came in, hath not ceased to kisse my feete.
Luke 7:46	Mine head with oyle thou didest not anoint: but she hath anoynted my feete with oyntment.
Luke 7:47	Wherefore I say vnto thee, many sinnes are forgiuen her: for she loued much. To whom a litle is forgiuen, he doeth loue a litle.
Luke 7:48	And he saide vnto her, Thy sinnes are forgiuen thee.
Luke 7:49	And they that sate at table with him, began to say within themselues, Who is this that euen forgiueth sinnes?
Luke 7:50	And he said to the woman, Thy faith hath saued thee: goe in peace.
Luke 8:1	And it came to passe afterwarde, that hee himselfe went through euery citie and towne, preaching and publishing the kingdome of God, and the twelue were with him,
Luke 8:2	And certaine women, which were healed of euill spirites, and infirmities, as Mary which was called Magdalene, out of whom went seuen deuils,
Luke 8:3	And Ioanna the wife of Chuza Herods steward, and Susanna, and many other which ministred vnto him of their substance.
Luke 8:4	Nowe when much people were gathered together, and were come vnto him out of all cities, he spake by a parable.
Luke 8:5	A sower went out to sowe his seede, and as he sowed, some fell by the wayes side, and it was troden vnder feete, and the foules of heauen deuoured it vp.
Luke 8:6	And some fell on the stones, and when it was sprong vp, it withered away, because it lacked moystnesse.
Luke 8:7	And some fell among thornes, and the thornes sprang vp with it, and choked it.
Luke 8:8	And some fell on good ground, and sprang vp, and bare fruite, an hundreth folde. And as hee sayd these things, he cryed, He that hath eares to heare, let him heare.
Luke 8:9	Then his disciples asked him, demaunding what parable that was.
Luke 8:10	And he sayd, Vnto you it is giuen to know the secrets of ye kingdome of God, but to other in parables, that when they see, they shoulde not see, and when they heare, they should not vnderstand.
Luke 8:11	The parable is this, The seede is the worde of God.
Luke 8:12	And they that are beside the way, are they that heare: afterward commeth the deuill, and taketh away the worde out of their hearts, least they should beleeue, and be saued.
Luke 8:13	But they that are on the stones, are they which when they haue heard, receiue ye word with ioy: but they haue no rootes: which for a while beleeue, but in the time of tentation goe away.
Luke 8:14	And that which fell among thornes, are they which haue heard, and after their departure are choked with cares and with riches, and voluptuous liuing, and bring forth no fruite.
Luke 8:15	But that which fell in good ground, are they which with an honest and good heart heare the worde, and keepe it, and bring forth fruite with patience.
Luke 8:16	No man when he hath lighted a candle, couereth it vnder a vessell, neither putteth it vnder the bed, but setteth it on a candlesticke, that they that enter in, may see the light.
Luke 8:17	For nothing is secret, that shall not be euident: neither any thing hid, that shall not be knowen, and come to light.
Luke 8:18	Take heede therefore how ye heare: for whosoeuer hath, to him shall be giuen: and whosoeuer hath not, from him shalbe taken euen that which it seemeth that he hath.
Luke 8:19	Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not come neere to him for the preasse.
Luke 8:20	And it was tolde him by certaine which said, Thy mother and thy brethren stand without, and would see thee.
Luke 8:21	But he answered, and sayd vnto them, My mother and my brethren are these which heare the worde of God, and doe it.
Luke 8:22	And it came to passe on a certaine day, that he went into a ship with his disciples, and he sayd vnto them, Let vs goe ouer vnto the other side of the lake. And they lanched forth.
Luke 8:23	And as they sayled, he fell a sleepe, and there came downe a storme of winde on the lake, and they were filled with water, and were in ieopardie.
Luke 8:24	Then they went to him, and awoke him, saying, Master, Master, we perish. And he arose, and rebuked the winde, and the waues of water: and they ceased, and it was calme.
Luke 8:25	Then he sayde vnto them, Where is your fayth? and they feared, and wondered among them selues, saying, Who is this that commandeth both the windes and water, and they obey him!
Luke 8:26	So they sailed vnto the region of the Gadarenes, which is ouer against Galile.
Luke 8:27	And as he went out to land, there met him a certaine man out of the citie, which had deuils long time, and he ware no garment, neither abode in house, but in the graues.
Luke 8:28	And when he sawe Iesus, he cryed out and fell downe before him, and with a loude voyce sayd, What haue I to doe with thee, Iesus the Sonne of God the most High? I beseech thee torment me not.
Luke 8:29	For he commanded ye foule spirit to come out of the man: (for oft times he had caught him: therefore he was bound with chaines, and kept in fetters: but he brake the bands, and was caried of the deuill into wildernesses.)
Luke 8:30	Then Iesus asked him, saying, What is thy name? and he sayd, Legion, because many deuils were entred into him.
Luke 8:31	And they besought him, that he would not commaund them to goe out into the deepe.
Luke 8:32	And there was there by, an hearde of many swine, feeding on an hill: and the deuils besought him, that he would suffer them to enter into them. So he suffered them.
Luke 8:33	Then went the deuils out of the man, and entred into the swine: and the hearde was caried with violence from a steepe downe place into the lake, and was choked.
Luke 8:34	When the heardmen sawe what was done, they fled: and when they were departed, they tolde it in the citie and in the countrey.
Luke 8:35	Then they came out to see what was done, and came to Iesus, and found the man, out of whom the deuils were departed, sitting at the feete of Iesus, clothed, and in his right minde: and they were afrayd.
Luke 8:36	They also which saw it, tolde them by what meanes he that was possessed with the deuill, was healed.
Luke 8:37	Then the whole multitude of the countrey about the Gadarenes, besought him that he would depart from them: for they were taken with a great feare: and he went into the ship, and returned.
Luke 8:38	Then the man, out of whome the deuils were departed, besought him that hee might be with him: but Iesus sent him away, saying,
Luke 8:39	Returne into thine owne house, and shewe what great things God hath done to thee. So hee went his way, and preached throughout all the citie, what great things Iesus had done vnto him.
Luke 8:40	And it came to passe, when Iesus was come againe, that the people receiued him: for they all waited for him.
Luke 8:41	And beholde, there came a man named Iairus, and he was the ruler of the Synagogue, who fell downe at Iesus feete, and besought him that he would come into his house.
Luke 8:42	For he had but a daughter onely, about twelue yeeres of age, and she lay a dying (and as he went, the people thronged him.
Luke 8:43	And a woman hauing an yssue of blood, twelue yeeres long, which had spent all her substance vpon physicians, and could not be healed of any:
Luke 8:44	When she came behind him, she touched the hemme of his garment, and immediatly her yssue of blood stanched.
Luke 8:45	Then Iesus sayd, Who is it that hath touched me? When euery man denied, Peter sayd and they that were with him, Master, the multitude thrust thee, and tread on thee, and sayest thou, Who hath touched me?
Luke 8:46	And Iesus sayde, Some one hath touched me: for I perceiue that vertue is gone out of me.
Luke 8:47	When the woman sawe that she was not hid, she came trembling, and fell downe before him, and tolde him before all the people, for what cause she had touched him, and how she was healed immediatly.
Luke 8:48	And he said vnto her, Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath saued thee: go in peace.)
Luke 8:49	While he yet spake, there came one from the ruler of the Synagogues house, which sayde to him, Thy daughter is dead: disease not the Master.
Luke 8:50	When Iesus heard it, he answered him, saying, Feare not: beleeue onely, and she shall be saued.
Luke 8:51	And when he went into the house, he suffered no man to goe in with him, saue Peter, and Iames, and Iohn, and the father and mother of the maide.
Luke 8:52	And all wept, and sorowed for her: but he sayd, Weepe not: for she is not dead, but sleepeth.
Luke 8:53	And they laught him to scorne, knowing that she was dead.
Luke 8:54	So he thrust them all out, and tooke her by the hand, and cryed, saying, Maide, arise.
Luke 8:55	And her spirite came againe, and she rose straightway: and he comanded to giue her meate.
Luke 8:56	Then her parents were astonied: but hee commanded them that they should tell no man what was done.
Luke 9:1	Then called hee his twelue disciples together, and gaue them power and authoritie ouer all deuils, and to heale diseases.
Luke 9:2	And hee sent them foorth to preach the kingdome of God, and to cure the sicke.
Luke 9:3	And he sayd to them, Take nothing to your iourney, neither staues, nor scrip, neither bread, nor siluer, neither haue two coates apiece.
Luke 9:4	And whatsoeuer house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart.
Luke 9:5	And howe many so euer will not receiue you, when ye goe out of that citie, shake off the very dust from your feete for a testimonie against them.
Luke 9:6	And they went out, and went through euery towne preaching the Gospel, and healing euery where.
Luke 9:7	Nowe Herod the Tetrarch heard of all that was done by him: and he douted, because that it was sayd of some, that Iohn was risen againe from the dead:
Luke 9:8	And of some, that Elias had appeared: and of some, that one of the olde Prophets was risen againe.
Luke 9:9	Then Herod sayd, Iohn haue I beheaded: who then is this of whome I heare such things? and he desired to see him.
Luke 9:10	And when the Apostles returned, they tolde him what great things they had done. Then he tooke them to him, and went aside into a solitarie place, neere to the citie called Bethsaida.
Luke 9:11	But when the people knewe it, they followed him: and he receiued them, and spake vnto them of the kingdome of God, and healed them that had neede to be healed.
Luke 9:12	And when the day began to weare away, the twelue came, and sayd vnto him, Sende the people away, that they may goe into the townes and villages round about, and lodge, and get meate: for we are here in a desart place.
Luke 9:13	But he sayd vnto them, Giue ye them to eate. And they sayd, We haue no more but fiue loaues and two fishes, except we should go and buy meate for all this people.
Luke 9:14	For they were about fiue thousand men. Then he sayde to his disciples, Cause them to sit downe by fifties in a company.
Luke 9:15	And they did so, and caused all to sit downe.
Luke 9:16	Then he tooke the fiue loaues, and the two fishes, and looked vp to heauen, and blessed them, and brake, and gaue to the disciples, to set before the people.
Luke 9:17	So they did all eate, and were satisfied: and there was taken vp of that remained to them, twelue baskets full of broken meate.
Luke 9:18	And it came to passe, as hee was alone praying, his disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am?
Luke 9:19	They answered, and sayd, Iohn Baptist: and others say, Elias: and some say, that one of the olde Prophets is risen againe.
Luke 9:20	And he sayd vnto them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answered, and sayd, That Christ of God.
Luke 9:21	And he warned and commanded them, that they should tell that to no man,
Luke 9:22	Saying, The Sonne of man must suffer many things and be reproued of the Elders, and of the hie Priests and Scribes, and be slaine, and the third day rise againe.
Luke 9:23	And he sayd to them all, If any man will come after me, let him denie himselfe, and take vp his crosse dayly, and follow me.
Luke 9:24	For whosoeuer will saue his life, shall lose it: and whosoeuer shall lose his life for my sake, the same shall saue it.
Luke 9:25	For what auantageth it a man, if he win the whole worlde, and destroy himselfe, or lose himselfe?
Luke 9:26	For whosoeuer shall be ashamed of me, and of my wordes, of him shall the Sonne of man be ashamed, when hee shall come in his glorie, and in the glorie of the Father, and of the holy Angels.
Luke 9:27	And I tell you of a suretie, there be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they haue seene the kingdome of God.
Luke 9:28	And it came to passe about an eyght dayes after those wordes, that he tooke Peter and Iohn, and Iames, and went vp into a mountaine to pray.
Luke 9:29	And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was changed, and his garment was white and glistered.
Luke 9:30	And beholde, two men talked with him, which were Moses and Elias:
Luke 9:31	Which appeared in glory, and tolde of his departing, which he shoulde accomplish at Hierusalem.
Luke 9:32	But Peter and they that were with him, were heauie with sleepe, and when they awoke, they saw his glorie, and the two men standing with him.
Luke 9:33	And it came to passe, as they departed from him, Peter said vnto Iesus, Master, it is good for vs to be here: let vs therefore make three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias, and wist not what he said.
Luke 9:34	Whiles he thus spake, there came a cloude and ouershadowed them, and they feared when they were entring into the cloude.
Luke 9:35	And there came a voyce out of the cloud, saying, This is that my beloued Sonne, heare him.
Luke 9:36	And when the voyce was past, Iesus was found alone: and they kept it close, and tolde no man in those dayes any of those things which they had seene.
Luke 9:37	And it came to passe on the next day, as they came downe from the mountaine, much people met him.
Luke 9:38	And beholde, a man of the companie cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, beholde my sonne: for he is all that I haue.
Luke 9:39	And loe, a spirit taketh him, and suddenly he crieth, and he teareth him, that he fometh, and hardly departeth from him, when he hath bruised him.
Luke 9:40	Nowe I haue besought thy disciples to cast him out, but they could not.
Luke 9:41	Then Iesus answered, and said, O generation faithlesse, and crooked, howe long now shall I be with you, and suffer you? bring thy sonne hither.
Luke 9:42	And whiles he was yet comming, the deuill rent him, and tare him: and Iesus rebuked the vncleane spirite, and healed the childe, and deliuered him to his father.
Luke 9:43	And they were all amased at the mightie power of God: and while they all wondered at al things, which Iesus did, he said vnto his disciples,
Luke 9:44	Marke these wordes diligently: for it shall come to passe, that the Sonne of man shalbe deliuered into the handes of men.
Luke 9:45	But they vnderstood not that word: for it was hid from them, so that they could not perceiue it: and they feared to aske him of that worde.
Luke 9:46	Then there arose a disputation among them, which of them should be the greatest.
Luke 9:47	When Iesus sawe the thoughtes of their heartes, he tooke a litle childe, and set him by him,
Luke 9:48	And said vnto them, Whosoeuer receiueth this litle childe in my Name, receiueth me: and whosoeuer shall receiue me, receiueth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all, he shall be great.
Luke 9:49	And Iohn answered and saide, Master, we sawe one casting out deuils in thy Name, and we forbad him, because he followeth thee not with vs.
Luke 9:50	Then Iesus saide vnto him, Forbid ye him not: for he that is not against vs, is with vs.
Luke 9:51	And it came to passe, when the dayes were accomplished, that he should be receiued vp, he setled himselfe fully to goe to Hierusalem,
Luke 9:52	And sent messengers before him: and they went and entred into a towne of the Samaritans, to prepare him lodging.
Luke 9:53	But they woulde not receiue him, because his behauiour was, as though he would go to Hierusalem.
Luke 9:54	And when his disciples, Iames and Iohn sawe it, they saide, Lord, wilt thou that we commaund, that fire come downe from heauen, and consume them, euen as Elias did?
Luke 9:55	But Iesus turned about, and rebuked them, and said, Ye knowe not of what spirit ye are.
Luke 9:56	For the Sonne of man is not come to destroy mens liues, but to saue them. Then they went to another towne.
Luke 9:57	And it came to passe that as they went in the way, a certaine man said vnto him, I will follow thee, Lord, whithersoeuer thou goest.
Luke 9:58	And Iesus saide vnto him, The foxes haue holes, and the birdes of the heauen nestes, but the Sonne of man hath not whereon to lay his head.
Luke 9:59	But he said vnto another, Followe me. And the same said, Lord, suffer me first to goe and burie my father.
Luke 9:60	And Iesus said vnto him, Let the dead burie their dead: but go thou, and preache the kingdome of God.
Luke 9:61	Then another saide, I will follow thee, Lord: but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at mine house.
Luke 9:62	And Iesus saide vnto him, No man that putteth his hand to the plough, and looketh backe, is apt to the kingdome of God.
Luke 10:1	After these thinges, the Lord appointed other seuentie also, and sent them, two and two before him into euery citie and place, whither he himselfe should come.
Luke 10:2	And he said vnto them, The haruest is great, but the labourers are fewe: pray therefore the Lord of the haruest to sende foorth labourers into his haruest.
Luke 10:3	Goe your wayes: beholde, I send you foorth as lambes among wolues.
Luke 10:4	Beare no bagge, neither scrippe, nor shoes, and salute no man by the way.
Luke 10:5	And into whatsoeuer house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house.
Luke 10:6	And if the sonne of peace be there, your peace shall rest vpon him: if not, it shall turne to you againe.
Luke 10:7	And in that house tary still, eating and drinking such things as by them shall be set before you: for the labourer is worthy of his wages. Goe not from house to house.
Luke 10:8	But into whatsoeuer citie ye shall enter, if they receiue you, eate such things as are set before you,
Luke 10:9	And heale the sicke that are there, and say vnto them, The kingdome of God is come neere vnto you.
Luke 10:10	But into whatsoeuer citie ye shall enter, if they will not receiue you, goe your wayes out into the streetes of the same, and say,
Luke 10:11	Euen the very dust, which cleaueth on vs of your citie, we wipe off against you: notwithstanding knowe this, that the kingdome of God was come neere vnto you.
Luke 10:12	For I say to you, that it shall be easier in that day for them of Sodom, then for that citie.
Luke 10:13	Woe be to thee, Chorazin: woe be to thee, Beth-saida: for if the miracles had bene done in Tyrus and Sidon, which haue bene done in you, they had a great while agone repented, sitting in sackecloth and ashes.
Luke 10:14	Therefore it shall be easier for Tyrus, and Sidon, at the iudgement, then for you.
Luke 10:15	And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted to heauen, shalt be thrust downe to hell.
Luke 10:16	He that heareth you, heareth me: and he that despiseth you, despiseth me: and he that despiseth me, despiseth him that sent me.
Luke 10:17	And the seuentie turned againe with ioy, saying, Lord, euen the deuils are subdued to vs through thy Name.
Luke 10:18	And he said vnto them, I sawe Satan, like lightening, fall downe from heauen.
Luke 10:19	Beholde, I giue vnto you power to treade on Serpents, and Scorpions, and ouer all the power of the enemie, and nothing shall hurt you.
Luke 10:20	Neuerthelesse, in this reioyce not, that the spirits are subdued vnto you: but rather reioyce, because your names are written in heauen.
Luke 10:21	That same houre reioyced Iesus in the spirit, and said, I confesse vnto thee, Father, Lord of heauen and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and vnderstanding, and hast reueiled them to babes: euen so, Father, because it so pleased thee.
Luke 10:22	All things are giuen me of my Father: and no man knoweth who the Sonne is, but the Father: neither who the Father is, saue the Sonne, and he to whom the Sonne will reueile him.
Luke 10:23	And he turned to his disciples, and said secretly, Blessed are the eyes, which see that ye see.
Luke 10:24	For I tell you that many Prophets and Kings haue desired to see those things, which ye see, and haue not seene them: and to heare those things which ye heare, and haue not heard them.
Luke 10:25	Then beholde, a certaine Lawyer stoode vp, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I doe, to inherite eternall life?
Luke 10:26	And he saide vnto him, What is written in the Lawe? howe readest thou?
Luke 10:27	And he answered, and saide, Thou shalt loue thy Lord God with all thine heart, and with all thy soule, and with all thy strength, and with all thy thought, and thy neighbour as thy selfe.
Luke 10:28	Then he said vnto him, Thou hast answered right: this doe, and thou shalt liue.
Luke 10:29	But he willing to iustifie himselfe, said vnto Iesus, Who is then my neighbour?
Luke 10:30	And Iesus answered, and saide, A certaine man went downe from Hierusalem to Iericho, and fell among theeues, and they robbed him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leauing him halfe dead.
Luke 10:31	Nowe so it fell out, that there came downe a certaine Priest that same way, and when he sawe him, he passed by on the other side.
Luke 10:32	And likewise also a Leuite, when he was come neere to the place, went and looked on him, and passed by on the other side.
Luke 10:33	Then a certaine Samaritane, as he iourneyed, came neere vnto him, and when he sawe him, he had compassion on him,
Luke 10:34	And went to him, and bound vp his wounds, and powred in oyle and wine, and put him on his owne beast, and brought him to an Inne, and made prouision for him.
Luke 10:35	And on the morowe when he departed, he tooke out two pence, and gaue them to the hoste, and said vnto him, Take care of him, and whatsoeuer thou spendest more, when I come againe, I will recompense thee.
Luke 10:36	Which nowe of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour vnto him that fell among the theeues?
Luke 10:37	And he saide, He that shewed mercie on him. Then said Iesus vnto him, Goe, and do thou likewise.
Luke 10:38	Nowe it came to passe, as they went, that he entred into a certaine towne, and a certaine woman named Martha, receiued him into her house.
Luke 10:39	And she had a sister called Marie, which also sate at Iesus feete, and heard his preaching.
Luke 10:40	But Martha was combred about much seruing, and came to him, and saide, Master, doest thou not care that my sister hath left me to serue alone? bid her therefore, that she helpe me.
Luke 10:41	And Iesus answered, and said vnto her, Martha, Martha, thou carest, and art troubled about many things:
Luke 10:42	But one thing is needefull, Marie hath chosen the good part, which shall not be taken away from her.
Luke 11:1	And so it was, that as he was praying in a certaine place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said vnto him, Lord, teache vs to pray, as Iohn also taught his disciples.
Luke 11:2	And he said vnto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father, which art in heauen, halowed be thy Name: Thy kingdome come: Let thy will be done, euen in earth, as it is in heauen:
Luke 11:3	Our dayly bread giue vs for the day:
Luke 11:4	And forgiue vs our sinnes: for euen we forgiue euery man that is indetted to vs: And leade vs not into temptation: but deliuer vs from euill.
Luke 11:5	Moreouer he said vnto them, Which of you shall haue a friende, and shall goe to him at midnight, and say vnto him, Friende, lende mee three loaues?
Luke 11:6	For a friende of mine is come out of the way to me, and I haue nothing to set before him:
Luke 11:7	And hee within shoulde answere, and say, Trouble mee not: the doore is nowe shut, and my children are with mee in bed: I can not rise and giue them to thee.
Luke 11:8	I say vnto you, Though he would not arise and giue him, because he is his friende, yet doubtlesse because of his importunitie, hee woulde rise, and giue him as many as he needed.
Luke 11:9	And I say vnto you, Aske, and it shall be giuen you: seeke, and yee shall finde: knocke, and it shalbe opened vnto you.
Luke 11:10	For euery one that asketh, receiueth: and he that seeketh, findeth: and to him that knocketh, it shalbe opened.
Luke 11:11	If a sonne shall aske bread of any of you that is a father, will he giue him a stone? or if hee aske a fish, will he for a fish giue him a serpent?
Luke 11:12	Or if hee aske an egge, will hee giue him a scorpion?
Luke 11:13	If yee then which are euill, can giue good giftes vnto your children, howe much more shall your heauenly Father giue the holy Ghost to them, that desire him?
Luke 11:14	Then hee cast out a deuill which was domme: and when the deuill was gone out, the domme spake, and the people wondered.
Luke 11:15	But some of them said, He casteth out deuils through Beelzebub the chiefe of ye deuils.
Luke 11:16	And others tempted him, seeking of him a signe from heauen.
Luke 11:17	But he knew their thoughts, and said vnto them, Euery kingdom deuided against it self, shall be desolate, and an house deuided against an house, falleth.
Luke 11:18	So if Satan also bee deuided against himselfe, howe shall his kingdome stande, because yee say that I cast out deuils through Beelzebub?
Luke 11:19	If I through Beelzebub cast out deuils, by whome doe your children cast them out? Therefore shall they be your iudges.
Luke 11:20	But if I by ye finger of God cast out deuils, doutles the kingdome of God is come vnto you.
Luke 11:21	When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, the thinges that hee possesseth, are in peace.
Luke 11:22	But when a stronger then hee, commeth vpon him, and ouercommeth him: hee taketh from him all his armour wherein he trusted, and deuideth his spoiles.
Luke 11:23	He that is not with me, is against me: and he that gathereth not with me, scattereth.
Luke 11:24	When the vncleane spirite is gone out of a man, he walketh through drie places, seeking rest: and when he findeth none he saieth, I wil returne vnto mine house whence I came out.
Luke 11:25	And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished.
Luke 11:26	Then goeth hee, and taketh to him seuen other spirites worse then himselfe: and they enter in, and dwel there: so the last state of that man is worse then the first.
Luke 11:27	And it came to passe as he sayde these thinges, a certaine woman of the companie lifted vp her voyce, and sayde vnto him, Blessed is the wombe that bare thee, and the pappes which thou hast sucked.
Luke 11:28	But hee saide, Yea, rather blessed are they that heare the woorde of God, and keepe it.
Luke 11:29	And when the people were gathered thicke together, he began to say, This is a wicked generation: they seeke a signe, and there shall no signe be giuen them, but the signe of Ionas the Prophet.
Luke 11:30	For as Ionas was a signe to the Niniuites: so shall also the Sonne of man bee to this generation.
Luke 11:31	The Queene of the South shall rise in iudgement, with the men of this generation, and shall condemne them: for shee came from the vtmost partes of the earth to heare the wisedome of Salomon, and beholde, a greater then Salomon is here.
Luke 11:32	The men of Niniue shall rise in iudgement with this generation, and shall condemne it: for they repented at the preaching of Ionas: and beholde, a greater then Ionas is here.
Luke 11:33	No man when he hath lighted a candle, putteth it in a priuie place, neither vnder a bushell: but on a candlesticke, that they which come in, may see the light.
Luke 11:34	The light of the bodie is the eye: therefore when thine eye is single, then is thy whole bodie light: but if thine eye be euill, then thy bodie is darke.
Luke 11:35	Take heede therefore, that the light which is in thee, be not darkenesse.
Luke 11:36	If therefore thy whole body shall be light, hauing no part darke, then shall all be light, euen as when a candle doth light thee with the brightnesse.
Luke 11:37	And as hee spake, a certaine Pharise besought him to dine with him: and hee went in, and sate downe at table.
Luke 11:38	And when the Pharise saw it, he marueiled that he had not first washed before dinner.
Luke 11:39	And the Lord saide to him, In deede yee Pharises make cleane the outside of the cuppe, and of the platter: but the inwarde part is full of rauening and wickednesse.
Luke 11:40	Ye fooles, did not he that made that which is without, make that which is within also?
Luke 11:41	Therefore, giue almes of those thinges which you haue, and beholde, all thinges shall be cleane to you.
Luke 11:42	But wo be to you, Pharises: for ye tithe the mynt and the rewe, and all maner herbs, and passe ouer iudgement and the loue of God: these ought yee to haue done, and not to haue left the other vndone.
Luke 11:43	Wo be to you, Pharises: for ye loue the vppermost seats in the Synagogues, and greetings in the markets.
Luke 11:44	Wo be to you, Scribes and Pharises, hypocrites: for ye are as graues which appeare not, and the men that walke ouer them, perceiue not.
Luke 11:45	Then answered one of the Lawyers, and saide vnto him, Master, thus saying thou puttest vs to rebuke also.
Luke 11:46	And he sayde, Wo be to you also, yee Lawyers: for yee lade men with burdens grieuous to be borne, and yee your selues touche not the burdens with one of your fingers.
Luke 11:47	Wo be to you: for ye builde the sepulchres of the Prophetes, and your fathers killed them.
Luke 11:48	Truely ye beare witnesse, and allowe the deedes of your fathers: for they killed them, and yee build their sepulchres.
Luke 11:49	Therefore said the wisedome of God, I wil sende them Prophets and Apostles, and of them they shall slaie, and persecute away,
Luke 11:50	That the blood of all the Prophets, shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation,
Luke 11:51	From the blood of Abel vnto the blood of Zacharias, which was slaine betweene the altar and the Temple: verely I say vnto you, it shall be required of this generation.
Luke 11:52	Wo be to you, Lawyers: for ye haue taken away the key of knowledge: ye entred not in your selues, and them that came in, ye forbade.
Luke 11:53	And as he sayde these things vnto them, the Scribes and Pharises began to vrge him sore, and to prouoke him to speake of many things,
Luke 11:54	Laying wait for him, and seeking to catche some thing of his mouth, whereby they might accuse him.
Luke 12:1	In the meane time, there gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, so that they trode one another: and he began to say vnto his disciples first, Take heede to your selues of the leauen of the Pharises, which is hypocrisie.
Luke 12:2	For there is nothing couered, that shall not bee reueiled: neither hidde, that shall not be knowen.
Luke 12:3	Wherefore whatsoeuer yee haue spoken in darkenesse, it shall be heard in the light: and that which ye haue spoken in the eare, in secret places, shall be preached on the houses.
Luke 12:4	And I say vnto you, my friendes, be not afraide of them that kill the bodie, and after that are not able to doe any more.
Luke 12:5	But I wil forewarne you, who ye shall feare: feare him which after hee hath killed, hath power to cast into hell: yea, I say vnto you, him feare.
Luke 12:6	Are not fiue sparowes bought for two farthings, and yet not one of them is forgotten before God?
Luke 12:7	Yea, and all the heares of your head are nombred: feare not therefore: yee are more of value then many sparowes.
Luke 12:8	Also I say vnto you, Whosoeuer shall confesse mee before men, him shall the Sonne of man confesse also before the Angels of God.
Luke 12:9	But hee that shall denie mee before men, shall be denied before the Angels of God.
Luke 12:10	And whosoeuer shall speake a woorde against the Sonne of man, it shall be forgiuen him: but vnto him, that shall blaspheme ye holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiuen.
Luke 12:11	And when they shall bring you vnto the Synagogues, and vnto the rulers and Princes, take no thought howe, or what thing ye shall answere, or what yee shall speake.
Luke 12:12	For the holy Ghost shall teache you in the same houre, what yee ought to say.
Luke 12:13	And one of the companie said vnto him, Master, bidde my brother deuide the inheritance with me.
Luke 12:14	And he said vnto him, Man, who made me a iudge, or a deuider ouer you?
Luke 12:15	Wherefore he said vnto them, Take heede, and beware of couetousnesse: for though a man haue abundance, yet his life standeth not in his riches.
Luke 12:16	And he put foorth a parable vnto them, saying, The grounde of a certaine riche man brought foorth fruites plenteously.
Luke 12:17	Therefore he thought with himselfe, saying, What shall I doe, because I haue no roume, where I may lay vp my fruites?
Luke 12:18	And he said, This wil I do, I wil pul downe my barnes, and builde greater, and therein will I gather all my fruites, and my goods.
Luke 12:19	And I wil say to my soule, Soule, thou hast much goods laide vp for many yeeres: liue at ease, eate, drinke and take thy pastime.
Luke 12:20	But God said vnto him, O foole, this night wil they fetch away thy soule from thee: then whose shall those things be which thou hast prouided?
Luke 12:21	So is he that gathereth riches to himselfe, and is not riche in God.
Luke 12:22	And he spake vnto his disciples, Therefore I say vnto you, Take no thought for your life, what yee shall eate: neither for your body, what yee shall put on.
Luke 12:23	The life is more then meate: and the body more then the raiment.
Luke 12:24	Consider the rauens: for they neither sowe nor reape: which neither haue storehouse nor barne, and yet God feedeth them: how much more are yee better then foules?
Luke 12:25	And which of you with taking thought, can adde to his stature one cubite?
Luke 12:26	If yee then bee not able to doe the least thing, why take yee thought for the remnant?
Luke 12:27	Consider the lilies howe they growe: they labour not, neither spin they: yet I say vnto you, that Salomon himselfe in all his royaltie was not clothed like one of these.
Luke 12:28	If then God so clothe the grasse which is to day in the field, and to morowe is cast into the ouen, howe much more will he clothe you, O yee of litle faith?
Luke 12:29	Therefore aske not what yee shall eate, or what ye shall drinke, neither hag you in suspense.
Luke 12:30	For all such things the people of the world seeke for: and your Father knoweth that ye haue neede of these things.
Luke 12:31	But rather seeke ye after the kingdome of God, and all these things shalbe cast vpon you.
Luke 12:32	Feare not, litle flocke: for it is your Fathers pleasure, to giue you the kingdome.
Luke 12:33	Sell that ye haue, and giue almes: make you bagges, which waxe not old, a treasure that can neuer faile in heauen, where no theefe commeth, neither mothe corrupteth.
Luke 12:34	For where your treasure is, there will your hearts be also.
Luke 12:35	Let your loynes be gird about and your lights burning,
Luke 12:36	And ye your selues like vnto men that waite for their master, when he will returne from the wedding, that when he commeth and knocketh, they may open vnto him immediatly.
Luke 12:37	Blessed are those seruants, whom the Lord when he commeth shall finde waking: verely I say vnto you, he will girde himselfe about, and make them to sit downe at table, and will come forth, and serue them.
Luke 12:38	And if he come in the seconde watch, or come in the third watch, and shall finde them so, blessed are those seruants.
Luke 12:39	Nowe vnderstand this, that if the good man of the house had knowen at what houre the theefe would haue come, he would haue watched, and would not haue suffered his house to be digged through.
Luke 12:40	Be ye also prepared therefore: for the Sonne of man will come at an houre when ye thinke not.
Luke 12:41	Then Peter saide vnto him, Master, tellest thou this parable vnto vs, or euen to all?
Luke 12:42	And the Lord saide, Who is a faithfull steward and wise, whom the master shall make ruler ouer his householde, to giue them their portion of meate in season?
Luke 12:43	Blessed is that seruant, whom his master when he commeth, shall finde so doing.
Luke 12:44	Of a trueth I say vnto you, that he wil make him ruler ouer all that he hath.
Luke 12:45	But if that seruant say in his heart, My master doeth deferre his comming, and ginne to smite the seruants, and maydens, and to eate, and drinke, and to be drunken,
Luke 12:46	The master of that seruant will come in a day when he thinketh not, and at an houre when he is not ware of, and will cut him off, and giue him his portion with the vnbeleeuers.
Luke 12:47	And that seruant that knewe his masters will, and prepared not himselfe, neither did according to his will, shalbe beaten with many stripes.
Luke 12:48	But he that knewe it not, and yet did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with fewe stripes: for vnto whomsoeuer much is giuen, of him shalbe much required, and to whom men much commit, the more of him will they aske.
Luke 12:49	I am come to put fire on the earth, and what is my desire, if it be already kindled?
Luke 12:50	Notwithstanding I must be baptized with a baptisme, and how am I grieued, till it be ended?
Luke 12:51	Thinke ye that I am come to giue peace on earth? I tell you, nay, but rather debate.
Luke 12:52	For from hencefoorth there shall be fiue in one house deuided, three against two, and two against three.
Luke 12:53	The father shalbe deuided against ye sonne, and the sonne against the father: the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother: the mother in lawe against her daughter in lawe, and the daughter in lawe against her mother in lawe.
Luke 12:54	Then said he to the people, When ye see a cloude rise out of the West, straightway ye say, A shower commeth: and so it is.
Luke 12:55	And when ye see the South winde blowe, ye say, that it wilbe hoate: and it commeth to passe.
Luke 12:56	Hypocrites, ye can discerne the face of the earth, and of the skie: but why discerne ye not this time?
Luke 12:57	Yea, and why iudge ye not of your selues what is right?
Luke 12:58	While thou goest with thine aduersarie to the ruler, as thou art in the way, giue diligence in the way, that thou mayest be deliuered from him, least he drawe thee to the iudge, and the iudge deliuer thee to the iayler, and the iayler cast thee into prison.
Luke 12:59	I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence, till thou hast payed the vtmost mite.
Luke 13:1	There were certaine men present at the same season, that shewed him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
Luke 13:2	And Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, Suppose ye, that these Galileans were greater sinners then al the other Galileans, because they haue suffered such things?
Luke 13:3	I tell you, nay: but except ye amend your liues, ye shall all likewise perish.
Luke 13:4	Or thinke you that those eighteene, vpon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slewe them, were sinners aboue all men that dwel in Hierusalem?
Luke 13:5	I tell you, nay: but except ye amend your liues, ye shall all likewise perish.
Luke 13:6	He spake also this parable, A certaine man had a figge tree planted in his vineyard: and he came and sought fruite thereon, and found none.
Luke 13:7	Then said he to the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, this three yeeres haue I come and sought fruite of this figge tree, and finde none: cut it downe: why keepeth it also the ground barren?
Luke 13:8	And he answered, and said vnto him, Lord, let it alone this yeere also, till I digge round about it, and doung it.
Luke 13:9	And if it beare fruite, well: if not, then after thou shalt cut it downe.
Luke 13:10	And he taught in one of ye Synagogues on the Sabbath day.
Luke 13:11	And behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmitie eighteene yeeres, and was bowed together, and coulde not lift vp her selfe in any wise.
Luke 13:12	When Iesus sawe her, he called her to him, and said to her, Woman, thou art loosed from thy disease.
Luke 13:13	And he laide his handes on her, and immediately she was made straight againe, and glorified God.
Luke 13:14	And the ruler of the Synagogue answered with indignation, because that Iesus healed on the Sabbath day, and said vnto the people, There are sixe dayes in which men ought to worke: in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day.
Luke 13:15	Then answered him the Lord, and said, Hypocrite, doth not eche one of you on the Sabbath day loose his oxe or his asse from the stall, and leade him away to the water?
Luke 13:16	And ought not this daughter of Abraham, whom Satan had bound, loe, eighteene yeeres, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day?
Luke 13:17	And when he said these things, all his aduersaries were ashamed: but all the people reioyced at all the excellent things, that were done by him.
Luke 13:18	Then said he, What is the kingdome of God like? or whereto shall I compare it?
Luke 13:19	It is like a graine of mustard seede, which a man tooke and sowed in his garden, and it grewe, and waxed a great tree, and the foules of the heauen made nestes in the branches thereof.
Luke 13:20	And againe he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdome of God?
Luke 13:21	It is like leauen, which a woman tooke, and hid in three peckes of floure, till all was leauened.
Luke 13:22	And he went through all cities and townes, teaching, and iourneying towards Hierusalem.
Luke 13:23	Then saide one vnto him, Lord, are there fewe that shalbe saued? And he said vnto them,
Luke 13:24	Striue to enter in at the straite gate: for many, I say vnto you, will seeke to enter in, and shall not be able.
Luke 13:25	When the good man of the house is risen vp, and hath shut to the doore, and ye begin to stand without, and to knocke at the doore, saying, Lord, Lord, open to vs, and he shall answere and say vnto you, I know you not whence ye are,
Luke 13:26	Then shall ye begin to say, We haue eaten and drunke in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streetes.
Luke 13:27	But he shall say, I tell you, I knowe you not whence ye are: depart from me, all ye workers of iniquitie.
Luke 13:28	There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth when ye shall see Abraham and Isaac, and Iacob, and all the Prophets in the kingdome of God, and your selues thrust out at doores.
Luke 13:29	Then shall come many from the East, and from the West, and from the North, and from the South, and shall sit at Table in the kingdome of God.
Luke 13:30	And beholde, there are last, which shalbe first, and there are first, which shalbe last.
Luke 13:31	The same day there came certaine Pharises, and said vnto him, Depart, and goe hence: for Herod will kill thee.
Luke 13:32	Then said he vnto them, Goe ye and tell that foxe, Beholde, I cast out deuils, and will heale still to day, and to morowe, and the third day I shalbe perfected.
Luke 13:33	Neuerthelesse I must walke to day, and to morowe, and the day following: for it cannot be that a Prophet should perish out of Hierusalem.
Luke 13:34	O Hierusalem, Hierusalem, which killest the Prophets, and stonest them that are sent to thee, howe often would I haue gathered thy children together, as the henne gathereth her brood vnder her wings, and ye would not!
Luke 13:35	Beholde, your house is left vnto you desolate: and verely I tell you, ye shall not see me vntill the time come that ye shall say, Blessed is he that commeth in the Name of the Lord.
Luke 14:1	And it came to passe that when he was entred into the house of one of the chiefe Pharises on the Sabbath day, to eate bread, they watched him.
Luke 14:2	And beholde, there was a certaine man before him, which had the dropsie.
Luke 14:3	Then Iesus answering, spake vnto the Lawyers and Pharises, saying, Is it lawfull to heale on the Sabbath day?
Luke 14:4	And they held their peace. Then he tooke him, and healed him, and let him goe,
Luke 14:5	And answered them, saying, Which of you shall haue an asse, or an oxe fallen into a pit, and wil not straightway pull him out on the Sabbath day?
Luke 14:6	And they could not answere him againe to those things.
Luke 14:7	He spake also a parable to the ghestes, when he marked howe they chose out the chiefe roomes, and said vnto them,
Luke 14:8	When thou shalt be bidden of any man to a wedding, set not thy selfe downe in the chiefest place, lest a more honourable man then thou, be bidden of him,
Luke 14:9	And he that bade both him and thee, come, and say to thee, Giue this man roome, and thou then begin with shame to take the lowest roome.
Luke 14:10	But when thou art bidden, goe and sit downe in the lowest roome, that when he that bade thee, cometh, he may say vnto thee, Friende, sit vp hier: then shalt thou haue worship in the presence of them that sit at table with thee.
Luke 14:11	For whosoeuer exalteth himselfe, shall be brought lowe, and he that humbleth himselfe, shall be exalted.
Luke 14:12	Then said he also to him that had bidden him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friendes, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsemen, nor ye riche neighbours, lest they also bid thee againe, and a recompence be made thee.
Luke 14:13	But when thou makest a feast, call ye poore, the maimed, the lame, and the blind,
Luke 14:14	And thou shalt be blessed, because they cannot recompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the iust.
Luke 14:15	Nowe when one of them that sate at table, heard these things, he said vnto him, Blessed is he that eateth bread in the kingdome of God.
Luke 14:16	Then saide he to him, A certaine man made a great supper, and bade many,
Luke 14:17	And sent his seruant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come: for all things are nowe readie.
Luke 14:18	But they all with one mind beganne to make excuse: The first saide vnto him, I haue bought a farme, and I must needes goe out and see it: I pray thee, haue me excused.
Luke 14:19	And another said, I haue bought fiue yoke of oxen, and I goe to proue them: I pray thee, haue me excused.
Luke 14:20	And another said, I haue maried a wife, and therefore I can not come.
Luke 14:21	So that seruaunt returned, and shewed his master these thinges. Then was the good man of the house angrie, and said to his seruant, Goe out quickely into the streetes and lanes of the citie, and bring in hither the poore, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blinde.
Luke 14:22	And the seruaunt saide, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is roome.
Luke 14:23	Then the master sayd to the seruaunt, Goe out into the hie wayes, and hedges, and compell them to come in, that mine house may bee filled.
Luke 14:24	For I say vnto you, that none of those men which were bidden, shall taste of my supper.
Luke 14:25	Nowe there went great multitudes with him, and he turned and sayd vnto them,
Luke 14:26	If any man come to mee, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters: yea, and his owne life also, he can not be my disciple.
Luke 14:27	And whosoeuer beareth not his crosse, and commeth after mee, can not bee my disciple.
Luke 14:28	For which of you minding to builde a towre, sitteth not downe before, and counteth the cost, whether hee haue sufficient to performe it,
Luke 14:29	Lest that after he hath laide the foundation, and is not able to performe it, all that behold it, begin to mocke him,
Luke 14:30	Saying, This man began to builde, and was not able to make an end?
Luke 14:31	Or what King going to make warre against another King, sitteth not downe first, and taketh counsell, whether he be able with ten thousande, to meete him that commeth against him with twentie thousand?
Luke 14:32	Or els while hee is yet a great way off, hee sendeth an ambassage, and desireth peace.
Luke 14:33	So likewise, whosoeuer hee be of you, that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple.
Luke 14:34	Salt is good: but if salt haue lost his sauour, wherewith shall it be salted?
Luke 14:35	It is neither meete for the land, nor yet for the dunghill, but men cast it out. He that hath eares to heare, let him heare.
Luke 15:1	Then resorted vnto him all the Publicanes and sinners, to heare him.
Luke 15:2	Therefore the Pharises and Scribes murmured, saying, Hee receiueth sinners, and eateth with them.
Luke 15:3	Then spake hee this parable to them, saying,
Luke 15:4	What man of you hauing an hundreth sheepe, if hee lose one of them, doeth not leaue ninetie and nine in the wildernesse, and goe after that which is lost, vntill he finde it?
Luke 15:5	And when he hath found it, he laieth it on his shoulders with ioye.
Luke 15:6	And when he commeth home, he calleth together his friendes and neighbours, saying vnto them, Reioyce with mee: for I haue founde my sheepe which was lost.
Luke 15:7	I say vnto you, that likewise ioy shall be in heauen for one sinner that conuerteth, more then for ninetie and nine iust men, which neede none amendment of life.
Luke 15:8	Either what woman hauing ten groates, if she lose one groate, doth not light a candle, and sweepe the house, and seeke diligently till shee finde it?
Luke 15:9	And when shee hath found it, shee calleth her friendes, and neighbours, saying, Reioyce with me: for I haue found the groate which I had lost.
Luke 15:10	Likewise I say vnto you, there is ioy in the presence of the Angels of God, for one sinner that conuerteth.
Luke 15:11	He sayde moreouer, A certaine man had two sonnes.
Luke 15:12	And the yonger of them sayde to his father, Father, giue mee the portion of the goods that falleth to mee. So he deuided vnto them his substance.
Luke 15:13	So not many daies after, when the yonger sonne had gathered all together, hee tooke his iourney into a farre countrey, and there hee wasted his goods with riotous liuing.
Luke 15:14	Nowe when hee had spent all, there arose a great dearth throughout that land, and he began to be in necessitie.
Luke 15:15	Then hee went and claue to a citizen of that conntrey, and hee sent him to his farme, to feede swine.
Luke 15:16	And hee would faine haue filled his bellie with the huskes, that the swine ate: but no man gaue them him.
Luke 15:17	Then he came to him selfe, and said, Howe many hired seruaunts at my fathers haue bread ynough, and I die for hunger?
Luke 15:18	I wil rise and goe to my father, and say vnto him, Father, I haue sinned against heaue, and before thee,
Luke 15:19	And am no more worthy to be called thy sonne: make me as one of thy hired seruants.
Luke 15:20	So hee arose and came to his father, and when hee was yet a great way off, his father sawe him, and had compassion, and ranne and fell on his necke, and kissed him.
Luke 15:21	And the sonne sayde vnto him, Father, I haue sinned against heauen, and before thee, and am no more worthie to be called thy sonne.
Luke 15:22	Then the father said to his seruaunts, Bring foorth the best robe, and put it on him, and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feete,
Luke 15:23	And bring the fat calfe, and kill him, and let vs eate, and be merie:
Luke 15:24	For this my sonne was dead, and is aliue againe: and he was lost, but he is found. And they began to be merie.
Luke 15:25	Nowe the elder brother was in the fielde, and when he came and drewe neere to the house, he heard melodie, and dauncing,
Luke 15:26	And called one of his seruaunts, and asked what those things meant.
Luke 15:27	And hee sayde vnto him, Thy brother is come, and thy father hath killed the fatte calfe, because he hath receiued him safe and sound.
Luke 15:28	Then he was angry, and would not goe in: therefore came his father out and entreated him.
Luke 15:29	But he answered and said to his father, Loe, these many yeeres haue I done thee seruice, neither brake I at any time thy commadement, and yet thou neuer gauest mee a kidde that I might make merie with my friends.
Luke 15:30	But when this thy sonne was come, which hath deuoured thy good with harlots, thou hast for his sake killed the fat calfe.
Luke 15:31	And he said vnto him, Sonne, thou art euer with me, and al that I haue, is thine. It was meete that we shoulde make merie, and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is aliue againe: and hee was lost, but he is found.
Luke 16:1	And he sayde also vnto his disciples, There was a certaine riche man, which had a stewarde, and he was accused vnto him, that he wasted his goods.
Luke 16:2	And hee called him, and saide vnto him, Howe is it that I heare this of thee? Giue an accounts of thy stewardship: for thou maiest be no longer steward.
Luke 16:3	Then the stewarde saide within himselfe, What shall I doe? for my master taketh away from me the stewardship. I cannot digge, and to begge I am ashamed.
Luke 16:4	I knowe what I will doe, that when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receiue mee into their houses.
Luke 16:5	Then called he vnto him euery one of his masters detters, and said vnto the first, Howe much owest thou vnto my master?
Luke 16:6	And he said, An hudreth measures of oyle. And he saide to him, Take thy writing, and sitte downe quickely, and write fiftie.
Luke 16:7	Then said he to another, How much owest thou? And hee sayde, An hundreth measures of wheate. Then he saide to him, Take thy writing, and write foure score.
Luke 16:8	And the Lord commended the vniust stewarde, because he had done wisely. Wherefore the children of this worlde are in their generation wiser then the children of light.
Luke 16:9	And I say vnto you, Make you friends with the riches of iniquitie, that when ye shall want, they may receiue you into euerlasting habitations.
Luke 16:10	He that is faithfull in the least, hee is also faithful in much: and he that is vniust in the least, is vniust also in much.
Luke 16:11	If then ye haue not ben faithful in the wicked riches, who wil trust you in the true treasure?
Luke 16:12	And if ye haue not bene faithfull in another mans goods, who shall giue you that which is yours?
Luke 16:13	No seruaunt can serue two masters: for either he shall hate the one, and loue the other: or els he shall leane to the one, and despise the other. Yee can not serue God and riches.
Luke 16:14	All these thinges heard the Pharises also which were couetous, and they scoffed at him.
Luke 16:15	Then he sayde vnto them, Yee are they, which iustifie your selues before men: but God knoweth your heartes: for that which is highly esteemed among men, is abomination in the sight of God.
Luke 16:16	The Lawe and the Prophets endured vntill Iohn: and since that time the kingdome of God is preached, and euery man preasseth into it.
Luke 16:17	Nowe it is more easie that heauen and earth shoulde passe away, then that one title of the Lawe should fall.
Luke 16:18	Whosoeuer putteth away his wife, and marieth another, committeth adulterie: and whosoeuer marieth her that is put away from her husband, committeth adulterie.
Luke 16:19	There was a certaine riche man, which was clothed in purple and fine linnen, and fared well and delicately euery day.
Luke 16:20	Also there was a certaine begger named Lazarus, which was laide at his gate full of sores,
Luke 16:21	And desired to bee refreshed with the crommes that fell from the riche mans table: yea, and the dogges came and licked his sores.
Luke 16:22	And it was so that the begger died, and was caried by the Angels into Abrahams bosome. The rich man also died, and was buried.
Luke 16:23	And being in hell in torments, he lift vp his eyes, and sawe Abraham a farre off, and Lazarus in his bosome.
Luke 16:24	Then he cried, and saide, Father Abraham, haue mercie on mee, and sende Lazarus that hee may dippe the tip of his finger in water, and coole my tongue: for I am tormented in this flame.
Luke 16:25	But Abraham saide, Sonne, remember that thou in thy life time receiuedst thy pleasures, and likewise Lazarus paines: now therefore is he comforted, and thou art tormented.
Luke 16:26	Besides all this, betweene you and vs there is a great gulfe set, so that they which would goe from hence to you, can not: neither can they come from thence to vs.
Luke 16:27	Then he said, I pray thee therfore, father, that thou wouldest sende him to my fathers house,
Luke 16:28	(For I haue fiue brethren) that he may testifie vnto them, least they also come into this place of torment.
Luke 16:29	Abraham said vnto him, They haue Moses and the Prophets: let them heare them.
Luke 16:30	And he sayde, Nay, father Abraham: but if one came vnto them from the dead, they will amend their liues.
Luke 16:31	Then he saide vnto him, If they heare not Moses and the Prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rise from the dead againe.
Luke 17:1	Then said he to his disciples, It can not be auoided, but that offences will come, but wo be to him by whome they come.
Luke 17:2	It is better for him that a great milstone were hanged about his necke, and that he were cast into ye sea, then that he should offende one of these litle ones.
Luke 17:3	Take heede to your selues: if thy brother trespasse against thee, rebuke him: and if hee repent, forgiue him.
Luke 17:4	And though he sinne against thee seuen times in a day, and seuen times in a day turne againe to thee, saying, It repenteth mee, thou shalt forgiue him.
Luke 17:5	And the Apostles saide vnto the Lord, Increase our faith.
Luke 17:6	And the Lord said, If ye had faith, as much as is a graine of mustard seede, and should say vnto this mulberie tree, Plucke thy selfe vp by the rootes, and plant thy selfe in the sea, it should euen obey you.
Luke 17:7	Who is it also of you, that hauing a seruant plowing or feeding cattell, woulde say vnto him by and by, when hee were come from the fielde, Goe, and sit downe at table?
Luke 17:8	And woulde not rather say to him, Dresse wherewith I may suppe, and girde thy selfe, and serue mee, till I haue eaten and drunken, and afterward eate thou, and drinke thou?
Luke 17:9	Doeth he thanke that seruant, because hee did that which was commanded vnto him? I trowe not.
Luke 17:10	So likewise yee, when yee haue done all those things, which are commanded you, say, We are vnprofitable seruants: wee haue done that which was our duetie to doe.
Luke 17:11	And so it was when he went to Hierusalem, that he passed through the middes of Samaria, and Galile.
Luke 17:12	And as hee entred into a certaine towne, there met him tenne men that were lepers, which stoode a farre off.
Luke 17:13	And they lift vp their voyces and saide, Iesus, Master, haue mercie on vs.
Luke 17:14	And when he saw them, he said vnto them, Goe, shewe your selues vnto the Priestes. And it came to passe, that as they went, they were clensed.
Luke 17:15	Then one of them, when hee sawe that hee, was healed, turned backe, and with a loude voyce praised God,
Luke 17:16	And fell downe on his face at his feete, and gaue him thankes: and he was a Samaritan.
Luke 17:17	And Iesus answered, and said, Are there not tenne clensed? but where are the nine?
Luke 17:18	There is none founde that returned to giue God praise, saue this stranger.
Luke 17:19	And he saide vnto him, Arise, goe thy way, thy faith hath saued thee.
Luke 17:20	And when hee was demaunded of the Pharises, when the kingdome of God shoulde come, he answered them, and said, The kingdome of God commeth not with obseruation.
Luke 17:21	Neither shall men say, Loe here, or lo there: for behold, the kingdome of God is within you.
Luke 17:22	And he saide vnto the disciples, The dayes will come, when ye shall desire to see one of the dayes of the Sonne of man, and ye shall not see it.
Luke 17:23	Then they shall say to you, Behold here, or beholde there: but goe not thither, neither follow them.
Luke 17:24	For as the lightening that lighteneth out of the one part vnder heauen, shineth vnto the other part vnder heauen, so shall the Sonne of man be in his day.
Luke 17:25	But first must he suffer many things, and be reprooued of this generation.
Luke 17:26	And as it was in the dayes of Noe, so shall it be in the dayes of the Sonne of man.
Luke 17:27	They ate, they dranke, they married wiues, and gaue in marriage vnto the day that Noe went into the Arke: and the flood came, and destroyed them all.
Luke 17:28	Likewise also, as it was in the dayes of Lot: they ate, they dranke, they bought, they solde, they planted, they built.
Luke 17:29	But in the day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heauen, and destroyed them all.
Luke 17:30	After these ensamples shall it be in the day when the Sonne of man is reueiled.
Luke 17:31	At that day hee that is vpon the house, and his stuffe in ye house, let him not come downe to take it out: and he that is in the fielde likewise, let him not turne backe to that he left behinde.
Luke 17:32	Remember Lots wife.
Luke 17:33	Whosoeuer will seeke to saue his soule, shall loose it: and whosoeuer shall loose it, shall get it life.
Luke 17:34	I tell you, in that night there shall be two in one bed: the one shalbe receiued, and the other shalbe left.
Luke 17:35	Two women shalbe grinding together: the one shalbe taken, and the other shalbe left.
Luke 17:36	Two shalbe in the fielde: one shalbe receiued, and another shalbe left.
Luke 17:37	And they answered, and saide to him, Where, Lord? And he said vnto them, Wheresoeuer the body is, thither shall also the eagles bee gathered together.
Luke 18:1	And he spake also a parable vnto them, to this ende, that they ought alwayes to pray, and not to waxe faint,
Luke 18:2	Saying, There was a iudge in a certaine citie, which feared not God, neither reuereced man.
Luke 18:3	And there was a widowe in that citie, which came vnto him, saying, Doe mee iustice against mine aduersarie.
Luke 18:4	And hee would not of a long time: but afterward he said with himselfe, Though I feare not God, nor reuerence man,
Luke 18:5	Yet because this widowe troubleth mee, I will doe her right, lest at the last shee come and make me wearie.
Luke 18:6	And the Lord said, Heare what the vnrighteous iudge saith.
Luke 18:7	Now shall not God auenge his elect, which cry day and night vnto him, yea, though he suffer long for them?
Luke 18:8	I tell you he will auenge them quickly: but when the Sonne of man commeth, shall he finde faith on the earth?
Luke 18:9	He spake also this parable vnto certaine which trusted in themselues that they were iust, and despised other.
Luke 18:10	Two men went vp into the Temple to pray: the one a Pharise, and the other a Publican.
Luke 18:11	The Pharise stoode and prayed thus with himselfe, O God, I thanke thee that I am not as other men, extortioners, vniust, adulterers, or euen as this Publican.
Luke 18:12	I fast twise in the weeke: I giue tithe of all that euer I possesse.
Luke 18:13	But the Publican standing a farre off, woulde not lift vp so much as his eyes to heauen, but smote his brest, saying, O God, be mercifull to me a sinner.
Luke 18:14	I tell you, this man departed to his house iustified, rather then the other: for euery man that exalteth himselfe, shall be brought lowe, and he that humbleth himselfe, shalbe exalted.
Luke 18:15	They brought vnto him also babes that he should touche them. And when his disciples sawe it, they rebuked them.
Luke 18:16	But Iesus called them vnto him, and said, Suffer the babes to come vnto mee, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdome of God.
Luke 18:17	Verely I say vnto you, whosoeuer receiueth not the kingdome of God as a babe, he shall not enter therein.
Luke 18:18	Then a certaine ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what ought I to doe, to inherite eternall life?
Luke 18:19	And Iesus said vnto him, Why callest thou me good? none is good, saue one, euen God.
Luke 18:20	Thou knowest the comandements, Thou shalt not commit adulterie: Thou shalt not kill: Thou shalt not steale: Thou shalt not beare false witnes: Honour thy father and thy mother.
Luke 18:21	And hee saide, All these haue I kept from my youth.
Luke 18:22	Nowe when Iesus heard that, he saide vnto him, Yet lackest thou one thing. Sell all that euer thou hast, and distribute vnto the poore, and thou shalt haue treasure in heauen, and come follow mee.
Luke 18:23	But when he heard those things, he was very heauie: for he was marueilous riche.
Luke 18:24	And when Iesus sawe him very sorowfull, he said, With what difficultie shall they that haue riches, enter into the kingdome of God!
Luke 18:25	Surely it is easier for a camel to go through a needles eye, then for a riche man to enter into the kingdome of God.
Luke 18:26	Then said they that heard it, And who then can be saued?
Luke 18:27	And he said, The things which are vnpossible with men, are possible with God.
Luke 18:28	Then Peter said, Loe, we haue left all, and haue followed thee.
Luke 18:29	And he said vnto them, Verely I say vnto you, there is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children for the kingdome of Gods sake,
Luke 18:30	Which shall not receiue much more in this world, and in the world to come life euerlasting.
Luke 18:31	Then Iesus tooke vnto him ye twelue, and said vnto them, Beholde, we goe vp to Hierusalem, and all things shalbe fulfilled to the Sonne of man, that are writttn by the Prophets.
Luke 18:32	For he shall be deliuered vnto the Gentiles, and shalbe mocked, and shalbe spitefully entreated, and shalbe spitted on.
Luke 18:33	And when they haue scourged him, they will put him to death: but the thirde day hee shall rise againe.
Luke 18:34	But they vnderstood none of these things, and this saying was hidde from them, neither perceiued they the things, which were spoken.
Luke 18:35	And it came to passe, that as he was come neere vnto Iericho, a certaine blinde man sate by the way side, begging.
Luke 18:36	And when he heard the people passe by, he asked what it meant.
Luke 18:37	And they saide vnto him, that Iesus of Nazareth passed by.
Luke 18:38	Then hee cried, saying, Iesus the Sonne of Dauid, haue mercie on me.
Luke 18:39	And they which went before, rebuked him that he shoulde holde his peace, but he cried much more, O Sone of Dauid, haue mercie on me.
Luke 18:40	And Iesus stoode stil, and commanded him to be brought vnto him. And when he was come neere, he asked him,
Luke 18:41	Saying, What wilt thou that I doe vnto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receiue my sight.
Luke 18:42	And Iesus said vnto him, Receiue thy sight: thy faith hath saued thee.
Luke 18:43	Then immediatly he receiued his sight, and followed him, praysing God: and all the people, when they sawe this, gaue praise to God.
Luke 19:1	Now when Iesus entred and passed through Iericho,
Luke 19:2	Beholde, there was a man named Zaccheus, which was the chiefe receiuer of the tribute, and he was riche.
Luke 19:3	And he sought to see Iesus, who hee should be, and coulde not for the preasse, because he was of a lowe stature.
Luke 19:4	Wherefore he ranne before, and climed vp into a wilde figge tree, that he might see him: for he should come that way.
Luke 19:5	And when Iesus came to the place, he looked vp, and saw him, and said vnto him, Zaccheus, come downe at once: for to day I must abide at thine house.
Luke 19:6	Then he came downe hastily, and receiued him ioyfully.
Luke 19:7	And when all they sawe it, they murmured, saying, that hee was gone in to lodge with a sinfull man.
Luke 19:8	And Zaccheus stood forth, and said vnto the Lord, Beholde, Lord, the halfe of my goods I giue to the poore: and if I haue taken from any man by forged cauillation, I restore him foure folde.
Luke 19:9	Then Iesus said to him, This day is saluation come vnto this house, forasmuch as hee is also become the sonne of Abraham.
Luke 19:10	For the Sonne of man is come to seeke, and to saue that which was lost.
Luke 19:11	And whiles they heard these thinges, hee continued and spake a parable, because hee was neere to Hierusalem, and because also they thought that the kingdom of God should shortly appeare.
Luke 19:12	He saide therefore, A certaine noble man went into a farre countrey, to receiue for himselfe a kingdome, and so to come againe.
Luke 19:13	And he called his ten seruants, and deliuered them ten pieces of money, and sayd vnto them, Occupie till I come.
Luke 19:14	Nowe his citizens hated him, and sent an ambassage after him, saying, We will not haue this man to reigne ouer vs.
Luke 19:15	And it came to passe, when hee was come againe, and had receiued his kingdome, that he commanded the seruants to be called to him, to whome he gaue his money, that he might knowe what euery man had gained.
Luke 19:16	Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy piece hath encreased ten pieces.
Luke 19:17	And he sayd vnto him, Well, good seruant: because thou hast bene faithfull in a very litle thing, take thou authoritie ouer ten cities.
Luke 19:18	And the second came, saying, Lord, thy piece hath encreased fiue pieces.
Luke 19:19	And to the same he sayd, Be thou also ruler ouer fiue cities.
Luke 19:20	So the other came, and sayd, Lord, beholde thy piece, which I haue laide vp in a napkin:
Luke 19:21	For I feared thee, because thou art a straight man: thou takest vp, that thou layedst not downe, and reapest that thou diddest not sowe.
Luke 19:22	Then he sayde vnto him, Of thine owne mouth will I iudge thee, O euill seruant. Thou knewest that I am a straight man, taking vp that I layd not downe, and reaping that I did not sowe.
Luke 19:23	Wherefore then gauest not thou my money into the banke, that at my coming I might haue required it with vantage?
Luke 19:24	And he sayd to them that stoode by, Take from him that piece, and giue it him that hath ten pieces.
Luke 19:25	(And they sayd vnto him, Lord, hee hath ten pieces.)
Luke 19:26	For I say vnto you, that vnto all them that haue, it shalbe giuen: and from him that hath not, euen that he hath, shalbe taken from him.
Luke 19:27	Moreouer, those mine enemies, which would not that I should reigne ouer them, bring hither, and slay them before me.
Luke 19:28	And when he had thus spoken, he went forth before, ascending vp to Hierusalem.
Luke 19:29	And it came to passe, when hee was come neere to Bethphage, and Bethania, besides the mount which is called the mount of Oliues, he sent two of his disciples,
Luke 19:30	Saying, Goe ye to the towne which is before you, wherein, assoone as ye are come, ye shall finde a colte tied, whereon neuer man sate: loose him, and bring him hither.
Luke 19:31	And if any man aske you, why ye loose him, thus shall ye say vnto him, Because the Lord hath neede of him.
Luke 19:32	So they that were sent, went their way, and found it as he had sayd vnto them.
Luke 19:33	And as they were loosing the colte, the owners thereof sayd vnto them, Why loose ye the colte?
Luke 19:34	And they sayd, The Lord hath neede of him.
Luke 19:35	So they brought him to Iesus, and they cast their garments on the colte, and set Iesus thereon.
Luke 19:36	And as he went, they spred their clothes in the way.
Luke 19:37	And when he was nowe come neere to the going downe of the mount of Oliues, the whole multitude of the disciples began to reioyce, and to prayse God with a loude voyce, for all the great workes that they had seene,
Luke 19:38	Saying, Blessed be the King that commeth in the Name of the Lord: peace in heauen, and glory in the highest places.
Luke 19:39	Then some of the Pharises of the companie sayd vnto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples.
Luke 19:40	But he answered, and sayd vnto them, I tell you, that if these should holde their peace, the stones would crie.
Luke 19:41	And when he was come neere, he behelde the Citie, and wept for it,
Luke 19:42	Saying, O if thou haddest euen knowen at the least in this thy day those things, which belong vnto thy peace! but nowe are they hid from thine eyes.
Luke 19:43	For the dayes shall come vpon thee, that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compasse thee round, and keepe thee in on euery side,
Luke 19:44	And shall make thee euen with ye ground, and thy children which are in thee, and they shall not leaue in thee a stone vpon a stone, because thou knewest not that season of thy visitation.
Luke 19:45	He went also into the Temple, and began to cast out them that solde therein, and them that bought,
Luke 19:46	Saying vnto them, It is written, Mine house is the house of prayer, but ye haue made it a denne of theeues.
Luke 19:47	And he taught dayly in the Temple. And the hie Priests and the Scribes, and the chiefe of the people sought to destroy him.
Luke 19:48	But they could not finde what they might doe to him: for all the people hanged vpon him when they heard him.
Luke 20:1	And it came to passe, that on one of those dayes, as he taught the people in the Temple, and preached the Gospel, the hie Priests and the Scribes came vpon him with the Elders,
Luke 20:2	And spake vnto him, saying, Tell vs by what authoritie thou doest these things, or who is hee that hath giuen thee this authoritie?
Luke 20:3	And he answered, and sayde vnto them, I also will aske you one thing: tell me therefore:
Luke 20:4	The baptisme of Iohn, was it from heauen, or of men?
Luke 20:5	And they reasoned within themselues, saying, If we shall say, From heauen, he will say, Why then beleeued ye him not?
Luke 20:6	But if we shall say, Of men, all the people will stone vs: for they be perswaded that Iohn was a Prophet.
Luke 20:7	Therefore they answered, that they could not tell whence it was.
Luke 20:8	Then Iesus sayd vnto them, Neither tell I you, by what authoritie I doe these things.
Luke 20:9	Then began he to speake to ye people this parable, A certaine man planted a vineyarde, and let it forth to husbandmen: and went into a strange countrey, for a great time.
Luke 20:10	And at the time conuenient he sent a seruant to the husbandmen, that they should giue him of the fruite of the vineyard: but the husbandmen did beate him, and sent him away emptie.
Luke 20:11	Againe he sent yet another seruant: and they did beate him, and foule entreated him, and sent him away emptie.
Luke 20:12	Moreouer he sent the third, and him they wounded, and cast out.
Luke 20:13	Then sayd the Lord of the vineyard, What shall I doe? I will send my beloued sonne: it may be that they will doe reuerence, when they see him.
Luke 20:14	But when the husbandmen sawe him, they reasoned with themselues, saying, This is the heire: come, let vs kill him, that the inheritance may be ours.
Luke 20:15	So they cast him out of the vineyarde, and killed him. What shall the Lord of the vineyarde therefore doe vnto them?
Luke 20:16	He will come and destroy these husbandmen, and wil giue out his vineyard to others. But when they heard it, they sayd, God forbid.
Luke 20:17	And he beheld them, and said, What meaneth this then that is written, The stone that the builders refused, that is made the head of the corner?
Luke 20:18	Whosoeuer shall fall vpon that stone, shall be broken: and on whomsoeuer it shall fall, it will grinde him to pouder.
Luke 20:19	Then the hie Priests, and the Scribes the same houre went about to lay hands on him: (but they feared the people) for they perceiued that he had spoken this parable against them.
Luke 20:20	And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should faine themselues iust men, to take him in his talke, and to deliuer him vnto the power and authoritie of the gouernour.
Luke 20:21	And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest, and teachest right, neither doest thou accept mans person, but teachest the way of God truely.
Luke 20:22	Is it lawfull for vs to giue Cesar tribute or no?
Luke 20:23	But he perceiued their craftines, and sayd vnto them, Why tempt ye me?
Luke 20:24	Shew me a penie. Whose image and superscription hath it? They answered, and sayd, Cesars.
Luke 20:25	Then he sayd vnto them, Giue then vnto Cesar the things which are Cesars, and to God those which are Gods.
Luke 20:26	And they could not reproue his saying before the people: but they marueiled at his answere, and helde their peace.
Luke 20:27	Then came to him certaine of the Sadduces (which denie that there is any resurrection) and they asked him,
Luke 20:28	Saying, Master, Moses wrote vnto vs, If any mans brother die hauing a wife, and hee die without children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise vp seede vnto his brother.
Luke 20:29	Now there were seuen brethren, and the first tooke a wife, and he dyed without children.
Luke 20:30	And the second tooke the wife, and he dyed childelesse.
Luke 20:31	Then the third tooke her: and so likewise the seuen dyed, and left no children.
Luke 20:32	And last of all the woman dyed also.
Luke 20:33	Therefore at the resurrection, whose wife of them shall she be? for seuen had her to wife.
Luke 20:34	Then Iesus answered, and sayd vnto them, The children of this world marry wiues, and are married.
Luke 20:35	But they which shalbe counted worthy to enioy that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry wiues, neither are married.
Luke 20:36	For they can die no more, forasmuch as they are equall vnto the Angels, and are the sonnes of God, since they are the children of the resurrection.
Luke 20:37	And that the dead shall rise againe, euen Moses shewed it besides the bush, when he said, The Lord is the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Iacob.
Luke 20:38	For he is not the God of the dead, but of them which liue: for all liue vnto him.
Luke 20:39	Then certaine of the Scribes answered, and sayd, Master, thou hast well sayd.
Luke 20:40	And after that, durst they not aske him any thing at all.
Luke 20:41	Then sayd he vnto them, Howe say they that Christ is Dauids sonne?
Luke 20:42	And Dauid himselfe sayth in the booke of the Psalmes, The Lord sayd vnto my Lord, Sit at my right hand,
Luke 20:43	Till I shall make thine enemies thy footestoole.
Luke 20:44	Seeing Dauid called him Lord, howe is he then his sonne?
Luke 20:45	Then in the audience of all the people he sayd vnto his disciples,
Luke 20:46	Beware of the Scribes, which willingly go in long robes, and loue salutations in the markets, and the highest seates in the assemblies, and the chiefe roomes at feastes:
Luke 20:47	Which deuoure widowes houses, and in shewe make long prayers: These shall receiue greater damnation.
Luke 21:1	And as he behelde, he sawe the rich men, which cast their giftes into the treasurie.
Luke 21:2	And he sawe also a certaine poore widowe which cast in thither two mites:
Luke 21:3	And he sayd, Of a trueth I say vnto you, that this poore widowe hath cast in more then they all.
Luke 21:4	For they all haue of their superfluitie cast into the offerings of God: but she of her penurie hath cast in all the liuing that she had.
Luke 21:5	Nowe as some spake of the Temple, how it was garnished with goodly stones, and with consecrate things, he sayd,
Luke 21:6	Are these ye things that ye looke vpon? the dayes will come wherein a stone shall not be left vpon a stone, that shall not be throwen downe.
Luke 21:7	Then they asked him, saying, Master, but when shall these things be? and what signe shall there be when these things shall come to passe?
Luke 21:8	And he sayd, Take heede, that ye be not deceiued: for many will come in my Name, saying, I am Christ, and the time draweth neere: follow ye not them therefore.
Luke 21:9	And when ye heare of warres and seditions, be not afraid: for these things must first come, but the ende foloweth not by and by.
Luke 21:10	Then said hee vnto them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdome against kingdome,
Luke 21:11	And great earthquakes shall be in diuers places, and hunger, and pestilence, and fearefull things, and great signes shall there be from heauen.
Luke 21:12	But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute you, deliuering you vp to the assemblies, and into prisons, and bring you before Kings and rulers for my Names sake.
Luke 21:13	And this shall turne to you, for a testimoniall.
Luke 21:14	Lay it vp therefore in your heartes, that ye cast not before hand, what ye shall answere.
Luke 21:15	For I will giue you a mouth and wisdome, where against all your aduersaries shall not be able to speake, nor resist.
Luke 21:16	Yea, ye shalbe betrayed also of your parents, and of your brethren, and kinsmen, and friendes, and some of you shall they put to death.
Luke 21:17	And ye shall bee hated of all men for my Names sake.
Luke 21:18	Yet there shall not one heare of your heads perish.
Luke 21:19	By your patience possesse your soules.
Luke 21:20	And when ye see Hierusalem besieged with souldiers, then vnderstand that the desolation thereof is neere.
Luke 21:21	Then let them which are in Iudea, flee to the mountaines: and let them which are in the middes thereof, depart out: and let not them that are in the countrey, enter therein.
Luke 21:22	For these be the dayes of vengeance, to fulfill all things that are written.
Luke 21:23	But woe be to them that be with childe, and to them that giue sucke in those dayes: for there shalbe great distresse in this land, and wrath ouer this people.
Luke 21:24	And they shall fall on the edge of the sword, and shalbe led captiue into all nations, and Hierusalem shalbe troden vnder foote of the Gentiles, vntill the time of the Gentiles be fulfilled.
Luke 21:25	Then there shalbe signes in the sunne, and in the moone, and in the starres, and vpon the earth trouble among the nations with perplexitie: the sea and the waters shall roare.
Luke 21:26	And mens hearts shall faile them for feare, and for looking after those thinges which shall come on the worlde: for the powers of heauen shall be shaken.
Luke 21:27	And then shall they see the Sonne of man come in a cloude, with power and great glory.
Luke 21:28	And when these things beginne to come to passe, then looke vp, and lift vp your heades: for your redemption draweth neere.
Luke 21:29	And he spake to them a parable, Behold, the figge tree, and all trees,
Luke 21:30	When they nowe shoote foorth, ye seeing them, knowe of your owne selues, that sommer is then neere.
Luke 21:31	So likewise yee, when yee see these thinges come to passe, knowe ye that the kingdome of God is neere.
Luke 21:32	Verely I say vnto you, This age shall not passe, till all these things be done:
Luke 21:33	Heauen and earth shall passe away, but my wordes shall not passe away.
Luke 21:34	Take heede to your selues, lest at any time your hearts be oppressed with surfeting and drunkennesse, and cares of this life, and least that day come on you at vnwares.
Luke 21:35	For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth.
Luke 21:36	Watche therefore, and pray continually, that ye may be counted worthy to escape all these thinges that shall come to passe, and that ye may stand before the Sonne of man.
Luke 21:37	Nowe in the day time hee taught in the Temple, and at night hee went out, and abode in the mount that is called the mount of Oliues.
Luke 21:38	And all the people came in the morning to him, to heare him in the Temple.
Luke 22:1	Now the feast of vnleauened bread drewe neere, which is called the Passeouer.
Luke 22:2	And the hie Priests and Scribes sought how they might kill him: for they feared the people.
Luke 22:3	Then entred Satan into Iudas, who was called Iscariot, and was of the nomber of the twelue.
Luke 22:4	And he went his way, and communed with the hie Priestes and captaines, how he might betray him to them.
Luke 22:5	So they were glad, and agreed to giue him money.
Luke 22:6	And he consented, and sought opportunitie to betraye him vnto them, when the people were away.
Luke 22:7	Then came the day of vnleauened bread, when the Passeouer must be sacrificed.
Luke 22:8	And he sent Peter and Iohn, saying, Go and prepare vs the Passeouer, that we may eate it.
Luke 22:9	And they saide to him, Where wilt thou, that we prepare it?
Luke 22:10	Then he said vnto them, Beholde, when ye be entred into the citie, there shall a man meete you, bearing a pitcher of water: folowe him into the house that he entreth in,
Luke 22:11	And say vnto the good man of the house, The Master saith vnto thee, Where is the lodging where I shall eate my Passeouer with my disciples?
Luke 22:12	Then he shall shewe you a great hie chamber trimmed: there make it ready.
Luke 22:13	So they went, and found as he had said vnto them, and made readie the Passeouer.
Luke 22:14	And when the houre was come, hee sate downe, and the twelue Apostles with him.
Luke 22:15	Then he saide vnto them, I haue earnestly desired to eate this Passeouer with you, before I suffer.
Luke 22:16	For I say vnto you, Hencefoorth I will not eate of it any more, vntill it bee fulfilled in the kingdome of God.
Luke 22:17	And hee tooke the cup, and gaue thankes, and said, Take this, and deuide it among you,
Luke 22:18	For I say vnto you, I will not drinke of the fruite of the vine, vntill the kingdome of God be come.
Luke 22:19	And he tooke bread, and when he had giuen thankes, he brake it, and gaue to them, saying, This is my body, which is giuen for you: doe this in the remembrance of me.
Luke 22:20	Likewise also after supper he tooke the cup, saying, This cup is that newe Testament in my blood, which is shed for you.
Luke 22:21	Yet beholde, the hand of him that betrayeth me, is with me at the table.
Luke 22:22	And truely the Sonne of man goeth as it is appointed: but woe be to that man, by whom he is betrayed.
Luke 22:23	Then they began to enquire among themselues which of them it should be, that should do that.
Luke 22:24	And there arose also a strife among them, which of them should seeme to be ye greatest.
Luke 22:25	But hee saide vnto them, The Kings of the Gentiles reigne ouer them, and they that beare rule ouer them, are called bountifull.
Luke 22:26	But yee shall not be so: but let the greatest among you be as the least: and the chiefest as he that serueth.
Luke 22:27	For who is greater, he that sitteth at table, or he that serueth? Is not he that sitteth at table? And I am among you as he that serueth.
Luke 22:28	And yee are they which haue continued with me in my tentations.
Luke 22:29	Therefore I appoint vnto you a kingdome, as my Father hath appointed vnto me,
Luke 22:30	That ye may eate, and drinke at my table in my kingdome, and sit on seates, and iudge the twelue tribes of Israel.
Luke 22:31	And the Lord saide, Simon, Simon, beholde, Satan hath desired you, to winowe you as wheate.
Luke 22:32	But I haue prayed for thee, that thy faith faile not: therefore when thou art conuerted, strengthen thy brethren.
Luke 22:33	And he said vnto him, Lord, I am ready to goe with thee into prison, and to death.
Luke 22:34	But he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cocke shall not crowe this day, before thou hast thrise denied that thou knewest me.
Luke 22:35	And he saide vnto them, When I sent you without bagge, and scrip, and shooes, lacked ye any thing? And they said, Nothing.
Luke 22:36	Then he said to them, But nowe he that hath a bagge, let him take it, and likewise a scrip: and hee that hath none, let him sell his coate, and buy a sworde.
Luke 22:37	For I say vnto you, That yet the same which is written, must be perfourmed in me, Euen with the wicked was he nombred: for doubtlesse those things which are written of me, haue an ende.
Luke 22:38	And they said, Lord, beholde, here are two swordes. And he said vnto them, It is ynough.
Luke 22:39	And he came out, and went (as he was wont) to the mount of Oliues: and his disciples also followed him.
Luke 22:40	And when hee came to the place, hee said to them, Pray, lest ye enter into tentation.
Luke 22:41	And he was drawen aside from them about a stones cast, and kneeled downe, and prayed,
Luke 22:42	Saying, Father, if thou wilt, take away this cuppe from mee: neuerthelesse, not my will, but thine be done.
Luke 22:43	And there appeared an Angell vnto him from heauen, comforting him.
Luke 22:44	But being in an agonie, hee prayed more earnestly: and his sweate was like drops of blood, trickling downe to the ground.
Luke 22:45	And he rose vp from prayer, and came to his disciples, and found them sleeping for heauinesse.
Luke 22:46	And he said vnto them, Why sleepe ye? rise and pray, least ye enter into tentation.
Luke 22:47	And while he yet spake, beholde, a companie, and he that was called Iudas one of the twelue, went before them, and came neere vnto Iesus to kisse him.
Luke 22:48	And Iesus saide vnto him, Iudas, betrayest thou the Sonne of man with a kisse?
Luke 22:49	Now when they which were about him, saw what would follow, they said vnto him, Lord, shall we smite with sworde?
Luke 22:50	And one of them smote a seruant of the hie Priest, and strooke off his right eare.
Luke 22:51	Then Iesus answered, and said, Suffer them thus farre: and he touched his eare, and healed him.
Luke 22:52	Then Iesus said vnto the hie Priests, and captaines of the Temple, and the Elders which were come to him, Bee ye come out as vnto a theefe with swordes and staues?
Luke 22:53	When I was dayly with you in the Temple, yee stretched not foorth the handes against mee: but this is your very houre, and the power of darkenesse.
Luke 22:54	Then tooke they him, and led him, and brought him to the hie Priestes house. And Peter followed afarre off.
Luke 22:55	And when they had kindled a fire in the middes of the hall, and were set downe together, Peter also sate downe among them.
Luke 22:56	And a certaine mayde behelde him as hee sate by the fire, and hauing well looked on him, said, This man was also with him.
Luke 22:57	But he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not.
Luke 22:58	And after a little while, another man sawe him, and saide, Thou art also of them. But Peter said, Man, I am not.
Luke 22:59	And about the space of an houre after, a certaine other affirmed, saying. Verely euen this man was with him: for he is also a Galilean.
Luke 22:60	And Peter saide, Man, I knowe not what thou sayest. And immediatly while hee yet spake, the cocke crewe.
Luke 22:61	Then the Lord turned backe, and looked vpon Peter: and Peter remembred the worde of the Lord, how he had said vnto him, Before the cocke crowe, thou shalt denie me thrise.
Luke 22:62	And Peter went out, and wept bitterly.
Luke 22:63	And the men that helde Iesus, mocked him, and strooke him.
Luke 22:64	And when they had blindfolded him, they smote him on the face, and asked him, saying, Prophecie who it is that smote thee.
Luke 22:65	And many other thinges blasphemously spake they against him.
Luke 22:66	And assoone as it was day, the Elders of the people, and the hie Priests and the Scribes came together, and led him into their councill,
Luke 22:67	Saying, Art thou that Christ? tell vs. And he said vnto them, If I tell you, ye wil not beleeue it.
Luke 22:68	And if also I aske you, you will not answere me, nor let me goe.
Luke 22:69	Hereafter shall the Sonne of man sit at the right hand of the power of God.
Luke 22:70	Then sayd they all, Art thou then ye Sonne of God? And he sayd to them, Ye say, that I am.
Luke 22:71	Then sayd they, What neede we any further witnes? for we our selues haue heard it of his owne mouth.
Luke 23:1	Then the whole multitude of them arose, and led him vnto Pilate.
Luke 23:2	And they began to accuse him, saying, We haue found this man peruerting the nation, and forbidding to pay tribute to Cesar, saying, That he is Christ a King.
Luke 23:3	And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Iewes? And hee answered him, and sayd, Thou sayest it.
Luke 23:4	Then sayd Pilate to the hie Priests, and to the people, I finde no fault in this man.
Luke 23:5	But they were the more fierce, saying, He moueth the people, teaching throughout all Iudea, beginning at Galile, euen to this place.
Luke 23:6	Nowe when Pilate heard of Galile, he asked whether the man were a Galilean.
Luke 23:7	And when he knewe that he was of Herods iurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, which was also at Hierusalem in those dayes.
Luke 23:8	And when Herod sawe Iesus, hee was exceedingly glad: for he was desirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many things of him, and trusted to haue seene some signe done by him.
Luke 23:9	Then questioned hee with him of many things: but he answered him nothing.
Luke 23:10	The hie Priests also and Scribes stood forth, and accused him vehemently.
Luke 23:11	And Herod with his men of warre, despised him, and mocked him, and arayed him in white, and sent him againe to Pilate.
Luke 23:12	And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together: for before they were enemies one to another.
Luke 23:13	Then Pilate called together the hie Priests and the rulers, and the people,
Luke 23:14	And sayd vnto them, Ye haue brought this man vnto me, as one that peruerted the people: and beholde, I haue examined him before you, and haue found no fault in this man, of those things whereof ye accuse him:
Luke 23:15	No, nor yet Herod: for I sent you to him: and loe, nothing worthy of death is done of him.
Luke 23:16	I will therefore chastise him, and let him loose.
Luke 23:17	(For of necessitie hee must haue let one loose vnto them at the feast.)
Luke 23:18	Then all ye multitude cried at once, saying, Away with him, and deliuer vnto vs Barabbas:
Luke 23:19	Which for a certaine insurrection made in the citie, and murder, was cast in prison.
Luke 23:20	Then Pilate spake againe to them, willing to let Iesus loose.
Luke 23:21	But they cried, saying, Crucifie, crucifie him.
Luke 23:22	And he sayd vnto them the third time, But what euill hath he done? I finde no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let him loose.
Luke 23:23	But they were instant with loude voyces, and required that he might be crucified: and the voyces of them and of the hie Priests preuailed.
Luke 23:24	So Pilate gaue sentence, that it should be as they required.
Luke 23:25	And he let loose vnto them him that for insurrection and murder was cast into prison, whome they desired, and deliuered Iesus to doe with him what they would.
Luke 23:26	And as they led him away, they caught one Simon of Cyrene, comming out of the fielde, and on him they layde the crosse, to beare it after Iesus.
Luke 23:27	And there followed him a great multitude of people, and of women, which women bewailed and lamented him.
Luke 23:28	But Iesus turned backe vnto them, and said, Daughters of Hierusalem, weepe not for me, but weepe for your selues, and for your children.
Luke 23:29	For behold, the dayes wil come, when men shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombes that neuer bare, and the pappes which neuer gaue sucke.
Luke 23:30	Then shall they begin to say to the mountaines, Fall on vs: and to the hilles, Couer vs.
Luke 23:31	For if they doe these things to a greene tree, what shalbe done to the drie?
Luke 23:32	And there were two others, which were euill doers, led with him to be slaine.
Luke 23:33	And when they were come to the place, which is called Caluarie, there they crucified him, and the euill doers: one at the right hand, and the other at the left.
Luke 23:34	Then sayd Iesus, Father, forgiue them: for they know not what they doe. And they parted his raiment, and cast lottes.
Luke 23:35	And the people stoode, and behelde: and the rulers mocked him with them, saying, He saued others: let him saue himselfe, if hee be that Christ, the Chosen of God.
Luke 23:36	The souldiers also mocked him, and came and offered him vineger,
Luke 23:37	And said, If thou be the King of the Iewes, saue thy selfe.
Luke 23:38	And a superscription was also written ouer him, in Greeke letters, and in Latin, and in Hebrewe, THIS IS THAT KING OF THE JEWES.
Luke 23:39	And one of the euill doers, which were hanged, railed on him, saying, If thou be that Christ, saue thy selfe and vs.
Luke 23:40	But the other answered, and rebuked him, saying, Fearest thou not God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation?
Luke 23:41	We are in deede righteously here: for we receiue things worthy of that we haue done: but this man hath done nothing amisse.
Luke 23:42	And he sayd vnto Iesus, Lord, remember me, when thou commest into thy kingdome.
Luke 23:43	Then Iesus said vnto him, Verely I say vnto thee, to day shalt thou be with me in Paradise.
Luke 23:44	And it was about the sixt houre: and there was a darkenes ouer all the land, vntill the ninth houre.
Luke 23:45	And the Sunne was darkened, and the vaile of the Temple rent through the middes.
Luke 23:46	And Iesus cryed with a loude voyce, and sayd, Father, into thine hands I commend my spirit. And when hee thus had sayd, hee gaue vp the ghost.
Luke 23:47	Nowe when the Centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Of a suretie this man was iust.
Luke 23:48	And all the people that came together to that sight, beholding the things, which were done, smote their brestes, and returned.
Luke 23:49	And all his acquaintance stood a farre off, and the women that followed him from Galile, beholding these things.
Luke 23:50	And beholde, there was a man named Ioseph, which was a counseller, a good man and a iust.
Luke 23:51	Hee did not consent to the counsell and deede of them, which was of Arimathea, a citie of the Iewes: who also himselfe waited for the kingdome of God.
Luke 23:52	He went vnto Pilate, and asked the body of Iesus,
Luke 23:53	And tooke it downe, and wrapped it in a linnen cloth, and laide it in a tombe hewen out of a rocke, wherein was neuer man yet laide.
Luke 23:54	And that day was the preparation, and the Sabbath drewe on.
Luke 23:55	And the women also that followed after, which came with him from Galile, behelde the sepulchre, and how his body was layd.
Luke 23:56	And they returned and prepared odours, and ointments, and rested the Sabbath day according to the commandement.
Luke 24:1	Nowe the first day of the weeke early in the morning, they came vnto the sepulchre, and brought the odours, which they had prepared, and certaine women with them.
Luke 24:2	And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre,
Luke 24:3	And went in, but found not the body of the Lord Iesus.
Luke 24:4	And it came to passe, that as they were amased thereat, beholde, two men suddenly stood by them in shining vestures.
Luke 24:5	And as they were afraide, and bowed downe their faces to the earth, they sayd to them, Why seeke ye him that liueth, among the dead?
Luke 24:6	He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake vnto you, when he was yet in Galile,
Luke 24:7	Saying, that the sonne of man must be deliuered into the hands of sinfull men, and be crucified, and the third day rise againe.
Luke 24:8	And they remembred his wordes,
Luke 24:9	And returned from the sepulchre, and tolde all these things vnto the eleuen, and to all the remnant.
Luke 24:10	Now it was Mary Magdalene, and Ioanna, and Mary the mother of Iames, and other women with them, which tolde these things vnto the Apostles.
Luke 24:11	But their wordes seemed vnto them, as a fained thing, neither beleeued they them.
Luke 24:12	Then arose Peter, and ran vnto the sepulchre, and looked in, and saw the linnen clothes laide by themselues, and departed wondering in himselfe at that which was come to passe.
Luke 24:13	And beholde, two of them went that same day to a towne which was from Hierusalem about threescore furlongs, called Emmaus.
Luke 24:14	And they talked together of al these things that were done.
Luke 24:15	And it came to passe, as they communed together, and reasoned, that Iesus himselfe drewe neere, and went with them.
Luke 24:16	But their eyes were holden, that they could not know him.
Luke 24:17	And he sayd vnto them, What maner of communications are these that ye haue one to another as ye walke and are sad?
Luke 24:18	And the one (named Cleopas) answered, and sayd vnto him, Art thou onely a stranger in Hierusalem, and hast not knowen the things which are come to passe therein in these dayes?
Luke 24:19	And he said vnto them, What things? And they sayd vnto him, Of Iesus of Nazareth, which was a Prophet, mightie in deede and in word before God, and all people,
Luke 24:20	And howe the hie Priests, and our rulers deliuered him to be condemned to death, and haue crucified him.
Luke 24:21	But we trusted that it had bene he that should haue deliuered Israel, and as touching all these things, to day is ye third day, that they were done.
Luke 24:22	Yea, and certaine women among vs made vs astonied, which came early vnto the sepulchre.
Luke 24:23	And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seene a vision of Angels, which sayd, that he was aliue.
Luke 24:24	Therefore certaine of them which were with vs, went to the sepulchre, and found it euen so as the women had sayd, but him they saw not.
Luke 24:25	Then he sayd vnto them, O fooles and slowe of heart to beleeue all that the Prophets haue spoken!
Luke 24:26	Ought not Christ to haue suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?
Luke 24:27	And he began at Moses, and at all the Prophets, and interpreted vnto them in all the Scriptures the things which were written of him.
Luke 24:28	And they drew neere vnto ye towne, which they went to, but he made as though hee would haue gone further.
Luke 24:29	But they constrained him, saying, Abide with vs: for it is towards night, and the day is farre spent. So he went in to tarie with them.
Luke 24:30	And it came to passe, as hee sate at table with them, he tooke the bread, and blessed, and brake it, and gaue it to them.
Luke 24:31	Then their eyes were opened, and they knewe him: and he was no more seene of them.
Luke 24:32	And they saide betweene themselues, Did not our heartes burne within vs, while he talked with vs by the way, and when he opened to vs the Scriptures?
Luke 24:33	And they rose vp the same houre, and returned to Hierusalem, and found the Eleuen gathered together, and them that were with them,
Luke 24:34	Which said, The Lord is risen in deede, and hath appeared to Simon.
Luke 24:35	Then they tolde what things were done in the way, and howe he was knowen of them in breaking of bread.
Luke 24:36	And as they spake these things, Iesus himselfe stoode in the middes of them, and saide vnto them, Peace be to you.
Luke 24:37	But they were abashed and afraide, supposing that they had seene a spirit.
Luke 24:38	Then he saide vnto them, Why are ye troubled? and wherefore doe doutes arise in your hearts?
Luke 24:39	Beholde mine handes and my feete: for it is I my selfe: handle me, and see: for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me haue.
Luke 24:40	And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and feete.
Luke 24:41	And while they yet beleeued not for ioy, and wondred, he saide vnto them, Haue ye here any meate?
Luke 24:42	And they gaue him a piece of a broyled fish, and of an honie combe,
Luke 24:43	And hee tooke it, and did eate before them.
Luke 24:44	And he saide vnto them, These are the wordes, which I spake vnto you while I was yet with you, that all must be fulfilled which are written of me in the Lawe of Moses, and in the Prophets, and in the Psalmes.
Luke 24:45	Then opened he their vnderstanding, that they might vnderstand the Scriptures,
Luke 24:46	And said vnto them, Thus is it written, and thus it behoued Christ to suffer, and to rise againe from the dead the third day,
Luke 24:47	And that repentance, and remission of sinnes should be preached in his Name among all nations, beginning at Hierusalem.
Luke 24:48	Nowe ye are witnesses of these things.
Luke 24:49	And beholde, I doe sende the promise of my Father vpon you: but tary ye in the citie of Hierusalem, vntill ye be endued with power from an hie.
Luke 24:50	Afterward he lead them out into Bethania, and lift vp his hands, and blessed them.
Luke 24:51	And it came to passe, that as he blessed them, he departed from them, and was caried vp into heauen.
Luke 24:52	And they worshipped him, and returned to Hierusalem with great ioy,
Luke 24:53	And were continually in the Temple, praysing, and lauding God, Amen.

===== BOOK: Malachi =====
Malachi 1:1	The burden of the woorde of the Lord to Israel by the ministerie of Malachi.
Malachi 1:2	I haue loued you, sayth the Lord: yet yee say, Wherein hast thou loued vs? Was not Esau Iaakobs brother, saith the Lord? yet I loued Iaakob,
Malachi 1:3	And I hated Esau, and made his mountaines wast, and his heritage a wildernes for dragons.
Malachi 1:4	Though Edom say, wee are impouerished, but we will returne and build the desolate places, yet sayeth the Lord of hostes, they shall builde, but I will destroy it, and they shall call them, The border of wickednes, and the people, with whome the Lord is angrie for euer.
Malachi 1:5	And your eyes shall see it, and yee shall say, The Lord will be magnified vpon the border of Israel.
Malachi 1:6	A sonne honoureth his father, and a seruant his master. If then I be a father, where is mine honour? and if I be a master, where is my feare, sayth the Lord of hostes vnto you, O Priestes, that despise my Name? and yee say, Wherein haue we despised thy Name?
Malachi 1:7	Ye offer vncleane bread vpon mine altar, and you say, Wherein haue we polluted thee? In that ye say the table of the Lord is not to be regarded.
Malachi 1:8	And if yee offer the blinde for sacrifice, it is not euill: and if ye offer the lame and sicke, it is not euill: offer it nowe vnto thy prince: will he be content with thee, or accept thy person, saieth the Lord of hostes?
Malachi 1:9	And nowe, I pray you, pray before God, that he may haue mercie vpon vs: this hath beene by your meanes: will hee regard your persons, sayth the Lord of hostes?
Malachi 1:10	Who is there euen among you, that would shut the doores? and kindle not fire on mine altar in vaine, I haue no pleasure in you, sayeth the Lord of hostes, neither will I accept an offering at your hande.
Malachi 1:11	For from the rising of the sunne vnto the going downe of the same, my Name is great among the Gentiles, and in euery place incense shalbe offred vnto my Name, and a pure offering: for my Name is great among the heathen, sayeth the Lord of hostes.
Malachi 1:12	But ye haue polluted it, in that ye say, The table of the Lord is polluted and the fruit thereof, euen his meat is not to be regarded.
Malachi 1:13	Ye said also, Beholde, it is a wearines, and ye haue snuffed at it, sayth the Lord of hostes, and ye offred that which was torne, and the lame and the sicke: thus yee offred an offring: shoulde I accept this of your hand, sayth the Lord?
Malachi 1:14	But cursed be the deceiuer, which hath in his flocke a male, and voweth, and sacrificeth vnto ye Lord a corrupt thing: for I am a great King, sayth the Lord of hostes, and my Name is terrible among the heathen.
Malachi 2:1	And now, O ye Priests, this commandement is for you.
Malachi 2:2	If yee will not heare it, nor consider it in your heart, to giue glory vnto my Name, sayth the Lord of hostes, I will euen sende a curse vpon you, and will curse your blessings: yea, I haue cursed them alreadie, because yee doe not consider it in your heart.
Malachi 2:3	Behold, I wil corrupt your seede, and cast dongue vpon your faces, euen the dongue of your solemne feastes, and you shall be like vnto it.
Malachi 2:4	And yee shall know, that I haue sent this commandement vnto you, that my couenant, which I made with Leui, might stand, sayeth the Lord of hostes.
Malachi 2:5	My couenant was with him of life and peace, and I gaue him feare, and he feared mee, and was afraid before my Name.
Malachi 2:6	The lawe of trueth was in his mouth, and there was no iniquitie founde in his lippes: hee walked with me in peace and equitie, and did turne many away from iniquitie.
Malachi 2:7	For the Priestes lippes shoulde preserue knowledge, and they shoulde seeke the Lawe at his mouth: for he is the messenger of the Lord of hostes.
Malachi 2:8	But yee are gone out of the way: yee haue caused many to fall by the Lawe: yee haue broken the couenant of Leui, sayeth the Lord of hostes.
Malachi 2:9	Therefore haue I also made you to be despised, and vile before all the people, because yee kept not my wayes, but haue beene partiall in the Lawe.
Malachi 2:10	Haue we not all one father? hath not one God made vs? why doe we transgresse euery one against his brother, and breake the couenant of our fathers?
Malachi 2:11	Iudah hath transgressed, and an abomination is committed in Israel and in Ierusalem: for Iudah hath defiled the holinesse of the Lord, which hee loued, and hath maried the daughter of a strange God.
Malachi 2:12	The Lord will cut off the man that doeth this: both the master and the seruaunt out of the Tabernacle of Iaacob, and him that offereth an offering vnto the Lord of hostes.
Malachi 2:13	And this haue ye done againe, and couered the altar of the Lord with teares, with weeping and with mourning: because the offering is no more regarded, neither receiued acceptably at your handes.
Malachi 2:14	Yet yee say, Wherein? Because the Lord hath beene witnesse betweene thee and the wife of thy youth, against whome thou hast transgressed: yet is shee thy companion, and the wife of thy couenant.
Malachi 2:15	And did not hee make one? yet had hee abundance of spirit: and wherefore one? because he sought a godly seede: therefore keepe your selues in your spirit, and let none trespasse against the wife of his youth.
Malachi 2:16	If thou hatest her, put her away, sayeth the Lord God of Israel, yet he couereth the iniurie vnder his garment, saieth the Lord of hosts: therefore keepe your selues in your spirite, and transgresse not.
Malachi 2:17	Yee haue wearied the Lord with your woordes: yet yee say, Wherein haue we wearied him? When ye say, Euery one that doeth euill, is good in the sight of the Lord, and he deliteth in them. Or where is the God of iudgement?
Malachi 3:1	Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the Lord whom ye seeke, shall speedely come to his Temple: euen the messenger of the couenant whom ye desire: beholde, he shall come, sayth the Lord of hostes.
Malachi 3:2	But who may abide the day of his comming? and who shall endure, when he appeareth? for he is like a purging fire, and like fullers sope.
Malachi 3:3	And he shall sit downe to trye and fine the siluer: he shall euen fine the sonnes of Leui and purifie them as golde and siluer, that they may bring offerings vnto the Lord in righteousnesse.
Malachi 3:4	Then shall the offerings of Iudah and Ierusalem be acceptable vnto the Lord, as in old time and in the yeeres afore.
Malachi 3:5	And I will come neere to you to iudgement, and I will be a swift witnesse against the southsayers, and against the adulterers, and against false swearers, and against those that wrongfully keepe backe the hirelings wages, and vexe the widowe, and the fatherlesse, and oppresse the stranger, and feare not me, sayth the Lord of hostes.
Malachi 3:6	For I am the Lord: I change not, and ye sonnes of Iaakob are not consumed.
Malachi 3:7	From the dayes of your fathers, ye are gone away from mine ordinances, and haue not kept them: returne vnto me, and I will returne vnto you, saith the Lord of hostes: but ye saide, Wherein shall we returne?
Malachi 3:8	Will a man spoyle his gods? yet haue ye spoyled me: but ye say, Wherein haue we spoyled thee? In tithes, and offerings.
Malachi 3:9	Ye are cursed with a curse: for ye haue spoyled me, euen this whole nation.
Malachi 3:10	Bring ye all the tythes into the storehouse that there may be meate in mine House, and proue me nowe herewith, sayeth the Lord of hostes, if I will not open the windowes of heauen vnto you, and powre you out a blessing without measure.
Malachi 3:11	And I will rebuke the deuourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruite of your grounde, neither shall your vine be baren in the fielde, sayeth the Lord of hostes.
Malachi 3:12	And all nations shall call you blessed: for ye shall be a pleasant lande, sayeth the Lord of hostes.
Malachi 3:13	Your wordes haue bene stout against me, sayeth the Lord: yet ye say, What haue we spoken against thee?
Malachi 3:14	Ye haue saide, It is in vaine to serue God: and what profite is it that we haue kept his commandement, and that we walked humbly before the Lord of hostes?
Malachi 3:15	Therefore wee count the proude blessed: euen they that worke wickednesse, are set vp, and they that tempt God, yea, they are deliuered.
Malachi 3:16	Then spake they that feared the Lord, euery one to his neighbour, and the Lord hearkened and heard it, and a booke of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that thought vpon his Name.
Malachi 3:17	And they shall be to me, sayeth the Lord of hostes, in that day that I shall do this, for a flocke, and I will spare them, as a man spareth his owne sonne that serueth him.
Malachi 3:18	Then shall you returne, and discerne betweene the righteous and wicked, betweene him that serueth God, and him that serueth him not.
Malachi 4:1	For behold, the day commeth that shall burne as an ouen, and all the proude, yea, and all that doe wickedly, shall be stubble, and the day that commeth, shall burne them vp, sayeth the Lord of hostes, and shall leaue them neither roote nor branche.
Malachi 4:2	But vnto you that feare my Name, shall the sunne of righteousnesse arise, and health shall be vnder his wings, and ye shall goe forth, and growe vp as fat calues.
Malachi 4:3	And ye shall treade downe the wicked: for they shall be dust vnder the soles of your feete in the day that I shall doe this, sayeth the Lord of hostes.
Malachi 4:4	Remember the lawe of Moses my seruant, which I commanded vnto him in Horeb for all Israel with the statutes and iudgements.
Malachi 4:5	Beholde, I will sende you Eliiah the Prophet before the comming of the great and fearefull day of the Lord.
Malachi 4:6	And he shall turne the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with cursing.

===== BOOK: Matthew =====
Matthew 1:1	The booke of the generation of Jesus Christ the sonne of Dauid, the sonne of Abraham.
Matthew 1:2	Abraham begate Isaac. And Isaac begate Iacob. And Iacob begat Iudas and his brethren.
Matthew 1:3	And Iudas begate Phares, and Zara of Thamar. And Phares begate Esrom. And Esrom begate Aram.
Matthew 1:4	And Aram begate Aminadab. And Aminadab begate Naasson. And Naasson begat Salmon.
Matthew 1:5	And Salmon begate Booz of Rachab. And Booz begat Obed of Ruth. and Obed begat Iesse.
Matthew 1:6	And Iesse begate Dauid the King. And Dauid the King begate Salomon of her that was the wife of Vrias.
Matthew 1:7	And Salomon begate Roboam. And Roboam begate Abia. And Abia begate Asa.
Matthew 1:8	And Asa begate Iosaphat. And Iosaphat begate Ioram. And Ioram begate Hozias.
Matthew 1:9	And Hozias begat Ioatham. And Ioatham begate Achaz. And Achaz begate Ezekias.
Matthew 1:10	And Ezekias begate Manasses. And Manasses begate Amon. And Amon begate Iosias.
Matthew 1:11	And Iosias begate Iakim. And Iakim begate Iechonias and his brethren about the time they were caried away to Babylon.
Matthew 1:12	And after they were caried away into Babylon, Iechonias begate Salathiel. And Salathiel begate Zorobabel.
Matthew 1:13	And Zorobabel begate Abiud. And Abiud begate Eliacim. And Eliacim begate Azor.
Matthew 1:14	And Azor begate Sadoc. And Sadoc begate Achim. And Achim begate Eliud.
Matthew 1:15	And Eliud begate Eleazar. And Eleazar begate Matthan. And Matthan begate Iacob.
Matthew 1:16	And Iacob begat Ioseph ye husband of Mary, of whom was borne Jesus, that is called Christ.
Matthew 1:17	So all the generations from Abraham to Dauid, are fourtene generations. And from Dauid vntil they were caried away into Babylon, fourtene generations: and after they were caried away into Babylon vntill Christ, fourteene generations.
Matthew 1:18	Nowe the birth of Jesus Christ was thus, When as his mother Mary was betrothed to Ioseph, before they came together, shee was found with childe of the holy Ghost.
Matthew 1:19	Then Ioseph her husband being a iust man, and not willing to make her a publike example, was minded to put her away secretly.
Matthew 1:20	But whiles he thought these things, behold, the Angel of the Lord appeared vnto him in a dreame, saying, Ioseph, the sonne of Dauid, feare not to take Mary thy wife: for that which is conceiued in her, is of the holy Ghost.
Matthew 1:21	And she shall bring foorth a sonne, and thou shalt call his name JESUS: for hee shall saue his people from their sinnes.
Matthew 1:22	And al this was done that it might be fulfilled, which is spoken of the Lord by ye Prophet, saying,
Matthew 1:23	Behold, a virgine shalbe with childe, and shall beare a sonne, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is by interpretation, God with vs.
Matthew 1:24	Then Ioseph, being raised from sleepe, did as the Angel of the Lord had inioyned him, and tooke his wife.
Matthew 1:25	But he knew her not, til she had broght forth her first borne sonne, and he called his name JESUS.
Matthew 2:1	When Jesus then was borne at Bethleem in Iudea, in the dayes of Herod the King, beholde, there came Wisemen from the East to Hierusalem,
Matthew 2:2	Saying, Where is that King of the Iewes that is borne? for wee haue seene his starre in the East, and are come to worship him.
Matthew 2:3	When King Herod heard this, he was troubled, and all Hierusalem with him.
Matthew 2:4	And gathering together all the chiefe Priestes and Scribes of the people, hee asked of them, where Christ should be borne.
Matthew 2:5	And they saide vnto him, At Beth-leem in Iudea: for so it is written by the Prophet,
Matthew 2:6	And thou Beth-leem in the lande of Iuda, art not the least among the Princes of Iuda: For out of thee shall come the gouernour that shall feede that my people Israel.
Matthew 2:7	Then Herod priuily called the Wisemen, and diligently inquired of them the time of the starre that appeared,
Matthew 2:8	And sent them to Beth-leem, saying, Goe, and searche diligently for the babe: and when ye haue founde him, bring mee worde againe, that I may come also, and worship him.
Matthew 2:9	So when they had heard the King, they departed: and loe, the starre which they had seene in the East, went before them, till it came and stoode ouer the place where the babe was.
Matthew 2:10	And when they sawe the starre, they reioyced with an exceeding great ioy,
Matthew 2:11	And went into the house, and founde the babe with Mary his mother, and fell downe, and worshipped him, and opened their treasures, and presented vnto him giftes, euen golde, and frankincense, and myrrhe.
Matthew 2:12	And after they were warned of God in a dreame, that they should not go againe to Herod, they returned into their countrey another way.
Matthew 2:13	After their departure, behold, the Angel of the Lord appeareth to Ioseph in a dreame, saying, Arise, and take the babe and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and be there til I bring thee word: for Herod will seeke the babe, to destroy him.
Matthew 2:14	So he arose and tooke the babe and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt,
Matthew 2:15	And was there vnto the death of Herod, that that might be fulfilled, which is spoken of the Lord by the Prophet, saying, Out of Egypt haue I called my sonne.
Matthew 2:16	Then Herod, seeing that he was mocked of the Wisemen, was exceeding wroth, and sent foorth, and slew all the male children that were in Beth-leem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two yeere old and vnder, according to the time which he had diligently searched out of the Wisemen.
Matthew 2:17	Then was that fulfilled which is spoken by the Prophet Ieremias, saying,
Matthew 2:18	In Rhama was a voyce heard, mourning, and weeping, and great howling: Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted, because they were not.
Matthew 2:19	And whe Herod was dead, behold, an Angel of the Lord appeareth in a dreame to Ioseph in Egypt,
Matthew 2:20	Saying, Arise, and take the babe and his mother, and goe into the land of Israel: for they are dead which sought the babes life.
Matthew 2:21	Then he arose vp and tooke the babe and his mother, and came into the land of Israel.
Matthew 2:22	But whe he heard that Archelaus did reigne in Iudea in stead of his father Herod, he was afraide to go thither: yet after he was warned of God in a dreame, he turned aside into the parts of Galile,
Matthew 2:23	And went and dwelt in a citie called Nazareth, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Prophets, which was, That hee should be called a Nazarite.
Matthew 3:1	And in those dayes, Iohn the Baptist came and preached in the wildernes of Iudea,
Matthew 3:2	And said, Repent: for the kingdome of heauen is at hand.
Matthew 3:3	For this is he of whome it is spoken by the Prophet Esaias, saying, The voyce of him that crieth in the wildernes, Prepare ye the way of the Lord: make his pathes straight.
Matthew 3:4	And this Iohn had his garment of camels heare, and a girdle of a skinne about his loynes: his meate was also locusts and wilde hony.
Matthew 3:5	Then went out to him Ierusalem and all Iudea, and all the region rounde about Iordan.
Matthew 3:6	And they were baptized of him in Iordan, confessing their sinnes.
Matthew 3:7	Now when he sawe many of the Pharises, and of the Sadduces come to his baptisme, he said vnto them, O generations of vipers, who hath forewarned you to flee from the anger to come?
Matthew 3:8	Bring foorth therefore fruite worthy amendment of life.
Matthew 3:9	And thinke not to say with your selues, We haue Abraham to our father: for I say vnto you, that God is able euen of these stones to raise vp children vnto Abraham.
Matthew 3:10	And now also is the axe put to the roote of the trees: therfore euery tree which bringeth not forth good fruit, is hewen downe, and cast into ye fire.
Matthew 3:11	In deede I baptize you with water to amendment of life, but he that commeth after me, is mightier then I, whose shoes I am not worthie to beare: hee will baptize you with the holy Ghost, and with fire.
Matthew 3:12	Which hath his fanne in his hand, and wil make cleane his floore, and gather his wheate into his garner, but will burne vp the chaffe with vnquenchable fire.
Matthew 3:13	Then came Iesus from Galile to Iordan vnto Iohn, to be baptized of him.
Matthew 3:14	But Iohn earnestly put him backe, saying, I haue neede to be baptized of thee, and commest thou to me?
Matthew 3:15	Then Iesus answering, saide to him, Let be nowe: for thus it becommeth vs to fulfill all righteousnes. So he suffered him.
Matthew 3:16	And Iesus when hee was baptized, came straight out of the water. And lo, the heaues were opened vnto him, and Iohn saw the Spirit of God descending like a doue, and lighting vpon him.
Matthew 3:17	And loe, a voyce came from heauen, saying, This is my beloued Sonne, in whome I am well pleased.
Matthew 4:1	Then was Iesus led aside of the Spirit into the wildernes, to be tempted of the deuil.
Matthew 4:2	And when he had fasted fourtie dayes, and fourtie nights, he was afterward hungrie.
Matthew 4:3	Then came to him the tempter, and said, If thou be the Sonne of God, commande that these stones be made bread.
Matthew 4:4	But he answering said, It is written, Man shall not liue by bread onely, but by euery worde that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.
Matthew 4:5	Then the deuil tooke him vp into the holy Citie, and set him on a pinacle of the temple,
Matthew 4:6	And said vnto him, If thou be the Sonne of God, cast thy selfe downe: for it is written, that he wil giue his Angels charge ouer thee, and with their hands they shall lift thee vp, lest at any time thou shouldest dash thy foote against a stone.
Matthew 4:7	Iesus saide vnto him, It is written againe, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.
Matthew 4:8	Againe the deuil tooke him vp into an exceeding hie mountaine, and shewed him all the kingdomes of the world, and the glory of them,
Matthew 4:9	And sayd to him, All these will I giue thee, if thou wilt fall downe, and worship me.
Matthew 4:10	Then sayd Iesus vnto him, Auoyde Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him onely shalt thou serue.
Matthew 4:11	Then the deuill left him: and beholde, the Angels came, and ministred vnto him.
Matthew 4:12	And when Iesus had heard that Iohn was committed to prison, he returned into Galile.
Matthew 4:13	And leauing Nazareth, went and dwelt in Capernaum, which is neere the sea in the borders of Zabulon and Nephthalim,
Matthew 4:14	That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the Propet, saying,
Matthew 4:15	The land of Zabulon, and the land of Nephthalim by the way of the sea, beyond Iordan, Galile of the Gentiles:
Matthew 4:16	The people which sate in darkenes, sawe great light: and to them which sate in the region, and shadowe of death, light is risen vp.
Matthew 4:17	From that time Iesus began to preach, and to say, Amende your liues: for the kingdome of heauen is at hand.
Matthew 4:18	And Iesus walking by the sea of Galile, sawe two brethren, Simon, which was called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea (for they were fishers.)
Matthew 4:19	And he sayd vnto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.
Matthew 4:20	And they straightway leauing the nets, folowed him.
Matthew 4:21	And when he was gone forth from thence, he saw other two brethren, Iames the sonne of Zebedeus, and Iohn his brother in a ship with Zebedeus their father, mending their nets, and he called them.
Matthew 4:22	And they without tarying, leauing the ship, and their father, folowed him.
Matthew 4:23	So Iesus went about all Galile, teaching in their Synagogues, and preaching the Gospel of the kingdome, and healing euery sicknesse and euery disease among the people.
Matthew 4:24	And his fame spread abroad through all Syria: and they brought vnto him all sicke people, that were taken with diuers diseases and torments, and them that were possessed with deuils, and those which were lunatike, and those that had the palsey: and he healed them.
Matthew 4:25	And there folowed him great multitudes out of Galile, and Decapolis, and Hierusalem, and Iudea, and from beyond Iordan.
Matthew 5:1	And when he sawe the multitude, he went vp into a mountaine: and when he was set, his disciples came to him.
Matthew 5:2	And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying,
Matthew 5:3	Blessed are the poore in spirit, for theirs is the kingdome of heauen.
Matthew 5:4	Blessed are they that mourne: for they shall be comforted.
Matthew 5:5	Blessed are the meeke: for they shall inherite the earth.
Matthew 5:6	Blessed are they which hunger and thirst for righteousnes: for they shalbe filled.
Matthew 5:7	Blessed are the mercifull: for they shall obteine mercie.
Matthew 5:8	Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.
Matthew 5:9	Blessed are the peace makers: for they shall be called the children of God.
Matthew 5:10	Blessed are they which suffer persecution for righteousnes sake: for theirs is the kingdome of heauen.
Matthew 5:11	Blessed shall ye be when men reuile you, and persecute you, and say all maner of euill against you for my sake, falsely.
Matthew 5:12	Reioyce and be glad, for great is your reward in heauen: for so persecuted they the Prophets which were before you.
Matthew 5:13	Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt haue lost his sauour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be troden vnder foote of men.
Matthew 5:14	Ye are the light of the world. A citie that is set on an hill, cannot be hid.
Matthew 5:15	Neither doe men light a candel, and put it vnder a bushel, but on a candlesticke, and it giueth light vnto all that are in the house.
Matthew 5:16	Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good workes, and glorifie your Father which is in heauen.
Matthew 5:17	Think not that I am come to destroy the Lawe, or the Prophets. I am not come to destroy them, but to fulfill them.
Matthew 5:18	For truely I say vnto you, Till heauen, and earth perish, one iote or one title of the Law shall not scape, till all things be fulfilled.
Matthew 5:19	Whosoeuer therefore shall breake one of these least commandements, and teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdome of heauen: but whosoeuer shall obserue and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdome of heauen.
Matthew 5:20	For I say vnto you, except your righteousnes exceede the righteousnes of the Scribes and Pharises, ye shall not enter into the kingdome of heauen.
Matthew 5:21	Ye haue heard that it was sayd vnto them of the olde time, Thou shalt not kill: for whosoeuer killeth shalbe culpable of iudgement.
Matthew 5:22	But I say vnto you, whosoeuer is angry with his brother vnaduisedly, shalbe culpable of iudgment. And whosoeuer sayth vnto his brother, Raca, shalbe worthy to be punished by the Councill. And whosoeuer shall say, Foole, shalbe worthy to be punished with hell fire.
Matthew 5:23	If then thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there remembrest that thy brother hath ought against thee,
Matthew 5:24	Leaue there thine offring before the altar, and goe thy way: first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.
Matthew 5:25	Agree with thine aduersarie quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him, lest thine aduersarie deliuer thee to the Iudge, and the Iudge deliuer thee to ye sergeant, and thou be cast into prison.
Matthew 5:26	Verely I say vnto thee, thou shalt not come out thence, till thou hast payed the vtmost farthing.
Matthew 5:27	Ye haue heard that it was sayd to them of olde time, Thou shalt not commit adulterie.
Matthew 5:28	But I say vnto you, that whosoeuer looketh on a woman to lust after her, hath committed adulterie with her already in his heart.
Matthew 5:29	Wherefore if thy right eye cause thee to offend, plucke it out, and cast it from thee: for better it is for thee, that one of thy members perish, then that thy whole body should be cast into hell.
Matthew 5:30	Also if thy right hand make thee to offend, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for better it is for thee that one of thy members perish, then that thy whole body should be cast into hell.
Matthew 5:31	It hath bene sayd also, Whosoeuer shall put away his wife, let him giue her a bill of diuorcement.
Matthew 5:32	But I say vnto you, whosoeuer shall put away his wife (except it be for fornication) causeth her to commit adulterie: and whosoeuer shall marrie her that is diuorced, committeth adulterie.
Matthew 5:33	Againe, ye haue heard that it was sayd to them of old time, Thou shalt not forsweare thy selfe, but shalt performe thine othes to the Lord.
Matthew 5:34	But I say vnto you, Sweare not at all, neither by heauen, for it is the throne of God:
Matthew 5:35	Nor yet by the earth: for it is his footestoole: neither by Hierusalem: for it is the citie of the great King.
Matthew 5:36	Neither shalt thou sweare by thine head, because thou canst not make one heare white or blacke.
Matthew 5:37	But let your communication be Yea, yea: Nay, nay. For whatsoeuer is more then these, commeth of euill.
Matthew 5:38	Ye haue heard that it hath bene sayd, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.
Matthew 5:39	But I say vnto you, Resist not euill: but whosoeuer shall smite thee on thy right cheeke, turne to him the other also.
Matthew 5:40	And if any man wil sue thee at the law, and take away thy coate, let him haue thy cloke also.
Matthew 5:41	And whosoeuer will compell thee to goe a mile, goe with him twaine.
Matthew 5:42	Giue to him that asketh, and from him that would borowe of thee, turne not away.
Matthew 5:43	Ye haue heard that it hath bin said, Thou shalt loue thy neighbour, and hate your enemie.
Matthew 5:44	But I say vnto you, Loue your enemies: blesse them that curse you: doe good to them that hate you, and pray for them which hurt you, and persecute you,
Matthew 5:45	That ye may be the children of your father that is in heauen: for he maketh his sunne to arise on the euill, and the good, and sendeth raine on the iust, and vniust.
Matthew 5:46	For if ye loue them, which loue you, what rewarde shall you haue? Doe not the Publicanes euen the same?
Matthew 5:47	And if ye be friendly to your brethren onely, what singular thing doe ye? doe not euen the Publicanes likewise?
Matthew 5:48	Ye shall therefore be perfit, as your Father which is in heauen, is perfite.
Matthew 6:1	Take heede that ye giue not your almes before men, to be seene of them, or els ye shall haue no reward of your Father which is in heaue.
Matthew 6:2	Therefore when thou giuest thine almes, thou shalt not make a trumpet to be blowen before thee, as the hypocrites doe in the Synagogues and in the streetes, to be praysed of men. Verely I say vnto you, they haue their rewarde.
Matthew 6:3	But when thou doest thine almes, let not thy left hand knowe what thy right hand doeth,
Matthew 6:4	That thine almes may be in secret, and thy Father that seeth in secret, hee will rewarde thee openly.
Matthew 6:5	And when thou prayest, be not as the hypocrites: for they loue to stand, and pray in the Synagogues, and in the corners of the streetes, because they would be seene of men. Verely I say vnto you, they haue their rewarde.
Matthew 6:6	But when thou prayest, enter into thy chamber and when thou hast shut thy doore, pray vnto thy Father which is in secret, and thy Father which seeth in secret, shall rewarde thee openly.
Matthew 6:7	Also when ye pray, vse no vaine repetitions as the Heathen: for they thinke to be heard for their much babbling.
Matthew 6:8	Be ye not like them therefore: for your Father knoweth whereof ye haue neede, before ye aske of him.
Matthew 6:9	After this maner therefore pray ye, Our father which art in heauen, halowed be thy name.
Matthew 6:10	Thy Kingdome come. Thy will be done euen in earth, as it is in heauen.
Matthew 6:11	Giue vs this day our dayly bread.
Matthew 6:12	And forgiue vs our dettes, as we also forgiue our detters.
Matthew 6:13	And leade vs not into tentation, but deliuer vs from euill: for thine is the kingdome, and the power, and the glorie for euer. Amen.
Matthew 6:14	For if ye doe forgiue men their trespasses, your heauenly Father will also forgiue you.
Matthew 6:15	But if ye do not forgiue men their trespasses,, no more will your father forgiue you your trespaces.
Matthew 6:16	Moreouer, when ye fast, looke not sowre as the hypocrites: for they disfigure their faces, that they might seeme vnto men to fast. Verely I say vnto you, that they haue their rewarde.
Matthew 6:17	But when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face,
Matthew 6:18	That thou seeme not vnto men to fast, but vnto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father which seeth in secret, will rewarde thee openly.
Matthew 6:19	Lay not vp treasures for your selues vpon the earth, where the mothe and canker corrupt, and where theeues digge through and steale.
Matthew 6:20	But lay vp treasures for your selues in heauen, where neither the mothe nor canker corrupteth, and where theeues neither digge through, nor steale.
Matthew 6:21	For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
Matthew 6:22	The light of the body is the eye: if then thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be light.
Matthew 6:23	But if thine eye be wicked, then all thy body shalbe darke. Wherefore if the light that is in thee, be darkenes, howe great is that darkenesse?
Matthew 6:24	No man can serue two masters: for eyther he shall hate the one, and loue the other, or els he shall leane to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serue God and riches.
Matthew 6:25	Therefore I say vnto you, be not carefull for your life, what ye shall eate, or what ye shall drinke: nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more worth then meate? and the bodie then raiment?
Matthew 6:26	Behold the foules of the heauen: for they sowe not, neither reape, nor carie into the barnes: yet your heauenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better then they?
Matthew 6:27	Which of you by taking care is able to adde one cubite vnto his stature?
Matthew 6:28	And why care ye for raiment? Learne howe the lilies of the fielde doe growe: they are not wearied, neither spinne:
Matthew 6:29	Yet I say vnto you, that euen Salomon in all his glorie was not arayed like one of these.
Matthew 6:30	Wherefore if God so clothe the grasse of the fielde which is to day, and to morowe is cast into the ouen, shall he not doe much more vnto you, O ye of litle faith?
Matthew 6:31	Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eate? or what shall we drinke? or where with shall we be clothed?
Matthew 6:32	(For after all these things seeke the Gentiles) for your heauenly Father knoweth, that ye haue neede of all these things.
Matthew 6:33	But seeke ye first the kingdome of God, and his righteousnesse, and all these things shall be ministred vnto you.
Matthew 6:34	Care not then for the morowe: for the morowe shall care for it selfe: the day hath ynough with his owne griefe.
Matthew 7:1	Judge not, that ye be not iudged.
Matthew 7:2	Eor with what iudgement ye iudge, ye shall be iudged, and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you againe.
Matthew 7:3	And why seest thou the mote, that is in thy brothers eye, and perceiuest not the beame that is in thine owne eye?
Matthew 7:4	Or howe sayest thou to thy brother, Suffer me to cast out the mote out of thine eye, and beholde, a beame is in thine owne eye?
Matthew 7:5	Hypocrite, first cast out that beame out of thine owne eye, and then shalt thou see clearely to cast out the mote out of thy brothers eye.
Matthew 7:6	Giue ye not that which is holy, to dogges, neither cast ye your pearles before swine, lest they treade them vnder their feete, and turning againe, all to rent you.
Matthew 7:7	Aske, and it shall be giuen you: seeke, and ye shall finde: knocke, and it shall be opened vnto you.
Matthew 7:8	For whosoeuer asketh, receiueth: and he, that seeketh, findeth: and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.
Matthew 7:9	For what man is there among you, which if his sonne aske him bread, woulde giue him a stone?
Matthew 7:10	Or if he aske fish, wil he giue him a serpent?
Matthew 7:11	If ye then, which are euill, can giue to your children good giftes, howe much more shall your Father which is in heauen, giue good thinges to them that aske him?
Matthew 7:12	Therefore whatsoeuer ye woulde that men should doe to you, euen so doe ye to them: for this is the Lawe and the Prophets.
Matthew 7:13	Enter in at the streight gate: for it is the wide gate, and broade way that leadeth to destruction: and many there be which goe in thereat,
Matthew 7:14	Because the gate is streight, and the way narowe that leadeth vnto life, and fewe there be that finde it.
Matthew 7:15	Beware of false prophets, which come to you, in sheepes clothing, but inwardly they are rauening wolues.
Matthew 7:16	Ye shall know them by their fruites. Doe men gather grapes of thornes? or figges of thistles?
Matthew 7:17	So euery good tree bringeth foorth good fruite, and a corrupt tree bringeth forth euill fruite.
Matthew 7:18	A good tree can not bring forth euil fruite: neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruite.
Matthew 7:19	Euery tree that bringeth not forth good fruite, is hewen downe, and cast into the fire.
Matthew 7:20	Therefore by their fruites ye shall knowe them.
Matthew 7:21	Not euery one that sayeth vnto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdome of heauen, but he that doeth my Fathers will which is in heauen.
Matthew 7:22	Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, haue we not by thy Name prophecied? and by thy name cast out deuils? and by thy name done many great workes?
Matthew 7:23	And then will I professe to them, I neuer knewe you: depart from me, ye that worke iniquitie.
Matthew 7:24	Whosoeuer then heareth of mee these words, and doeth the same, I will liken him to a wise man, which hath builded his house on a rock:
Matthew 7:25	And the raine fell, and the floods came, and the windes blewe, and beat vpon that house, and it fell not: for it was grounded on a rocke.
Matthew 7:26	But whosoeuer heareth these my wordes, and doeth them not, shall be likened vnto a foolish man, which hath builded his house vpon the sand:
Matthew 7:27	And the raine fell, and the floods came, and the windes blewe, and beat vpon that house, and it fell, and the fall thereof was great.
Matthew 7:28	And it came to passe, when Iesus had ended these wordes, the people were astonied at his doctrine.
Matthew 7:29	For he taught them as one hauing authoritie, and not as the Scribes.
Matthew 8:1	Nowe when he was come downe from the mountaine, great multitudes followed him.
Matthew 8:2	And loe, there came a Leper and worshipped him, saying, Master, if thou wilt, thou canst make me cleane.
Matthew 8:3	And Iesus putting foorth his hand, touched him, saying, I will, be thou cleane: and immediatly his leprosie was clensed.
Matthew 8:4	Then Iesus saide vnto him, See thou tell no man, but goe, and shewe thy selfe vnto the Priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a witnesse to them.
Matthew 8:5	When Iesus was entred into Capernaum, there came vnto him a Centurion, beseeching him,
Matthew 8:6	And saide, Master, my seruant lieth sicke at home of the palsie, and is grieuously pained.
Matthew 8:7	And Iesus saide vnto him, I will come and heale him.
Matthew 8:8	But the Centurion answered, saying, Master, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come vnder my roofe: but speake the worde onely, and my seruant shall be healed.
Matthew 8:9	For I am a man also vnder the authoritie of an other, and haue souldiers vnder me: and I say to one, Goe, and he goeth: and to another, Come, and he commeth: and to my seruant, Doe this, and he doeth it.
Matthew 8:10	When Iesus heard that, he marueiled, and said to them that folowed him, Verely, I say vnto you, I haue not found so great faith, euen in Israel.
Matthew 8:11	But I say vnto you, that many shall come from the East and West, and shall sit downe with Abraham, and Isaac, and Iacob, in the kingdome of heauen.
Matthew 8:12	And the children of the kingdome shall be cast out into vtter darkenes: there shalbe weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 8:13	Then Iesus saide vnto the Centurion, Goe thy way, and as thou hast beleeued, so be it vnto thee, And his seruant was healed the same houre.
Matthew 8:14	And when Iesus came to Peters house, he sawe his wiues mother layed downe, and sicke of a feuer.
Matthew 8:15	And he touched her hande, and the feuer left her: so she arose, and ministred vnto them.
Matthew 8:16	When the Euen was come, they brought vnto him many that were possessed with deuils: and he cast out the spirits with his worde, and healed all that were sicke,
Matthew 8:17	That it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Esaias the Prophet, saying, He tooke our infirmities, and bare our sickenesses.
Matthew 8:18	And when Iesus sawe great multitudes of people about him, he commanded them to goe ouer the water.
Matthew 8:19	Then came there a certaine Scribe, and said vnto him, Master, I will follow thee whithersoeuer thou goest.
Matthew 8:20	But Iesus saide vnto him, The foxes haue holes, and the birdes of the heauen haue nestes, but the Sonne of man hath not whereon to rest his head.
Matthew 8:21	And another of his disciples saide vnto him, Master, suffer me first to goe, and burie my father.
Matthew 8:22	But Iesus said vnto him, Followe me, and let the dead burie their dead.
Matthew 8:23	And when he was entred into ye ship, his disciples followed him.
Matthew 8:24	And beholde, there arose a great tempest in the sea, so that the ship was couered with waues: but he was a sleepe.
Matthew 8:25	Then his disciples came, and awoke him, saying, Master, saue vs: we perish.
Matthew 8:26	And he said vnto them, Why are ye fearefull, O ye of litle faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea: and so there was a great calme.
Matthew 8:27	And the men marueiled, saying, What man is this, that both the windes and the sea obey him!
Matthew 8:28	And when he was come to the other side into ye countrey of the Gergesenes, there met him two possessed with deuils, which came out of the graues very fierce, so that no man might goe by that way.
Matthew 8:29	And beholde, they cryed out, saying, Iesus the sonne of God, what haue we to do with thee? Art thou come hither to tormet vs before ye time?
Matthew 8:30	Nowe there was, afarre off from them, a great heard of swine feeding.
Matthew 8:31	And the deuils besought him, saying, If thou cast vs out, suffer vs to goe into the heard of swine.
Matthew 8:32	And he said vnto them, Go. So they went out and departed into the heard of swine: and beholde, the whole heard of swine ranne headlong into the sea, and died in the water.
Matthew 8:33	Then the heardmen fled: and when they were come into the citie, they tolde all things, and what was become of them that were possessed with the deuils.
Matthew 8:34	And beholde, all ye citie came out to meete Iesus: and when they sawe him, they besought him to depart out of their coastes.
Matthew 9:1	Then hee entred into a shippe, and passed ouer, and came into his owne citie.
Matthew 9:2	And loe, they brought to him a man sicke of the palsie, laid on a bed. And Iesus seeing their faith, saide to the sicke of the palsie, Sonne, be of good comfort: thy sinnes are forgiuen thee.
Matthew 9:3	And beholde, certaine of the Scribes saide with themselues, This man blasphemeth.
Matthew 9:4	But when Iesus saw their thoughts, he said, Wherefore thinke yee euil things in your hearts?
Matthew 9:5	For whether is it easier to say, Thy sinnes are forgiuen thee, or to say, Arise, and walke?
Matthew 9:6	And that ye may knowe that the Sonne of man hath authoritie in earth to forgiue sinnes, (then saide he vnto the sicke of the palsie,) Arise, take vp thy bed, and goe to thine house.
Matthew 9:7	And hee arose, and departed to his owne house.
Matthew 9:8	So when the multitude sawe it, they marueiled, and glorified God, which had giuen such authoritie to men.
Matthew 9:9	And as Iesus passed foorth from thence, hee sawe a man sitting at the custome, named Matthewe, and saide to him, Followe me. And he arose, and followed him.
Matthew 9:10	And it came to passe, as Iesus sate at meate in his house, beholde, many Publicanes and sinners, that came thither, sate downe at the table with Iesus and his disciples.
Matthew 9:11	And when the Pharises sawe that, they saide to his disciples, Why eateth your master with Publicanes and sinners?
Matthew 9:12	Nowe when Iesus heard it, hee sayde vnto them, The whole neede not a Physition, but they that are sicke.
Matthew 9:13	But goe yee and learne what this is, I will haue mercie, and not sacrifice: for I am not come to call the righteous, but the sinners to repentance.
Matthew 9:14	Then came the disciples of Iohn to him, saying, Why doe we and the Pharises fast oft, and thy disciples fast not?
Matthew 9:15	And Iesus saide vnto them, Can the children of the marriage chamber mourne as long as the bridegrome is with them? But the daies will come, when the bridegrome shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast.
Matthew 9:16	Moreouer no man pieceth an olde garment with a piece of newe cloth: for that that should fill it vp, taketh away from the garment, and the breach is worse.
Matthew 9:17	Neither doe they put newe wine into olde vessels: for then the vessels would breake, and the wine woulde be spilt, and the vessels shoulde perish: but they put new wine into newe vessels, and so are both preserued.
Matthew 9:18	While hee thus spake vnto them, beholde, there came a certaine ruler, and worshipped him, saying, My daughter is nowe deceased, but come and laie thine hande on her, and shee shall liue.
Matthew 9:19	And Iesus arose and followed him with his disciples.
Matthew 9:20	(And beholde, a woman which was diseased with an issue of blood twelue yeres, came behinde him, and touched the hemme of his garment.
Matthew 9:21	For shee saide in her selfe, If I may touche but his garment onely, I shalbe whole.
Matthew 9:22	Then Iesus turned him about, and seeing her, did say, Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath made thee whole. And the woman was made whole at that same moment.)
Matthew 9:23	Nowe when Iesus came into the Rulers house, and saw the minstrels and the multitude making noise,
Matthew 9:24	He said vnto them, Get you hence: for the maid is not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorne.
Matthew 9:25	And when the multitude were put foorth, hee went in and tooke her by the hande, and the maide arose.
Matthew 9:26	And this bruite went throughout all that lande.
Matthew 9:27	And as Iesus departed thence, two blinde men followed him, crying, and saying, O sonne of Dauid, haue mercie vpon vs.
Matthew 9:28	And when hee was come into the house, the blinde came to him, and Iesus saide vnto them, Beleeue yee that I am able to doe this? And they sayd vnto him, Yea, Lord.
Matthew 9:29	Then touched he their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it vnto you.
Matthew 9:30	And their eyes were opened, and Iesus gaue them great charge, saying, See that no man knowe it.
Matthew 9:31	But when they were departed, they spread abroad his fame throughout all that land.
Matthew 9:32	And as they went out, beholde, they brought to him a domme man possessed with a deuill.
Matthew 9:33	And when the deuill was cast out, the domme spake: then the multitude marueiled, saying, The like was neuer seene in Israel.
Matthew 9:34	But the Pharises saide, He casteth out deuils, through the prince of deuils.
Matthew 9:35	And Iesus went about all cities and townes, teaching in their Synagogues, and preaching the Gospel of the kingdome, and healing euery sickenesse and euery disease among the people.
Matthew 9:36	But when he saw the multitude, he had compassion vpon them, because they were dispersed, and scattered abroade, as sheepe hauing no shepheard.
Matthew 9:37	Then saide he to his disciples, Surely the haruest is great, but the labourers are fewe.
Matthew 9:38	Wherefore pray the Lord of the haruest, that he woulde sende foorth labourers into his haruest.
Matthew 10:1	And hee called his twelue disciples vnto him, and gaue them power against vncleane spirits, to cast them out, and to heale euery sickenesse, and euery disease.
Matthew 10:2	Nowe the names of the twelue Apostles are these. The first is Simon, called Peter, and Andrew his brother: Iames the sonne of Zebedeus, and Iohn his brother.
Matthew 10:3	Philippe and Bartlemewe: Thomas, and Matthewe that Publicane: Iames the sonne of Alpheus, and Lebbeus whose surname was Thaddeus:
Matthew 10:4	Simon the Cananite, and Iudas Iscariot, who also betraied him.
Matthew 10:5	These twelue did Iesus send forth, and commanded them, saying, Goe not into the way of of the Gentiles, and into the cities of the Samaritans enter yee not:
Matthew 10:6	But goe rather to the lost sheepe of the house of Israel.
Matthew 10:7	And as ye goe, preach, saying, The kingdome of heauen is at hand.
Matthew 10:8	Heale the sicke: cleanse the lepers: raise vp the dead: cast out the deuils. Freely ye haue receiued, freely giue.
Matthew 10:9	Possesse not golde, nor siluer, nor money in your girdels,
Matthew 10:10	Nor a scrippe for the iourney, neither two coates, neither shoes, nor a staffe: for the workeman is worthie of his meate.
Matthew 10:11	And into whatsoeuer citie or towne ye shall come, enquire who is worthy in it, and there abide till yee goe thence.
Matthew 10:12	And when yee come into an house, salute the same.
Matthew 10:13	And if the house be worthy, let your peace come vpon it: but if it be not worthie, let your peace returne to you.
Matthew 10:14	And whosoeuer shall not receiue you, nor heare your woordes, when yee depart out of that house, or that citie, shake off the dust of your feete.
Matthew 10:15	Truely I say vnto you, it shall be easier for them of the lande of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of iudgement, then for that citie.
Matthew 10:16	Behold, I send you as sheepe in the middes of the wolues: be yee therefore wise as serpents, and innocent as doues.
Matthew 10:17	But beware of men, for they will deliuer you vp to the Councils, and will scourge you in their Synagogues.
Matthew 10:18	And ye shall be brought to the gouernours and Kings for my sake, in witnes to them, and to the Gentiles.
Matthew 10:19	But when they deliuer you vp, take no thought howe or what ye shall speake: for it shall be giuen you in that houre, what ye shall say.
Matthew 10:20	For it is not yee that speake, but the spirite of your father which speaketh in you.
Matthew 10:21	And the brother shall betray the brother to death, and the father the sonne, and the children shall rise against their parents, and shall cause them to die.
Matthew 10:22	And yee shall be hated of all men for my Name: but he that endureth to the end, he shall be saued.
Matthew 10:23	And when they persecute you in this citie, flee into another: for verely I say vnto you, yee shall not goe ouer all the cities of Israel, till the Sonne of man be come.
Matthew 10:24	The disciple is not aboue his master, nor the seruant aboue his Lord.
Matthew 10:25	It is ynough for the disciple to bee as his master is, and the seruaunt as his Lord. If they haue called the master of the house Beel-zebub, howe much more them of his housholde?
Matthew 10:26	Feare them not therefore: for there is nothing couered, that shall not be disclosed, nor hid, that shall not be knowen.
Matthew 10:27	What I tell you in darkenesse, that speake yee in light: and what yee heare in the eare, that preach yee on the houses.
Matthew 10:28	And feare yee not them which kill the bodie, but are nor able to kill the soule: but rather feare him, which is able to destroy both soule and bodie in hell.
Matthew 10:29	Are not two sparrowes sold for a farthing, and one of them shall not fal on the ground without your Father?
Matthew 10:30	Yea, and all the heares of your head are nombred.
Matthew 10:31	Feare ye not therefore, yee are of more value then many sparowes.
Matthew 10:32	Whosoeuer therefore shall confesse me before men, him will I confesse also before my Father which is in heauen.
Matthew 10:33	But whosoeuer shall denie me before me, him will I also denie before my Father which is in heauen.
Matthew 10:34	Thinke not that I am come to sende peace into the earth: I came not to send peace, but the sworde.
Matthew 10:35	For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in lawe.
Matthew 10:36	And a mans enemies shall be they of his owne housholde.
Matthew 10:37	He that loueth father or mother more then me, is not worthie of me. And he that loueth sonne, or daughter more then mee, is not worthie of me.
Matthew 10:38	And hee that taketh not his crosse, and followeth after me, is not worthie of me.
Matthew 10:39	He that will finde his life, shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake, shall finde it.
Matthew 10:40	He that receiueth you, receiueth me: and hee that receiueth mee, receiueth him that hath sent me.
Matthew 10:41	Hee that receiueth a Prophet in the name of a Prophet, shall receiue a Prophetes rewarde: and hee that receiueth a righteous man, in the name of a righteous man, shall receiue the rewarde of a righteous man.
Matthew 10:42	And whosoeuer shall giue vnto one of these litle ones to drinke a cuppe of colde water onely, in the name of a disciple, verely I say vnto you, he shall not lose his rewarde.
Matthew 11:1	And it came to passe that when Iesus had made an ende of commaunding his twelue disciples, hee departed thence to teache and to preach in their cities.
Matthew 11:2	And when Iohn heard in the prison the woorkes of Christ, he sent two of his disciples, and sayde vnto him,
Matthew 11:3	Art thou he that shoulde come, or shall we looke for another?
Matthew 11:4	And Iesus answering, said vnto them, Goe, and shewe Iohn, what things ye heare, and see.
Matthew 11:5	The blinde receiue sight, and the halt doe walke: the lepers are clensed, and the deafe heare, the dead are raised vp, and the poore receiue the Gospel.
Matthew 11:6	And blessed is he that shall not be offeded in me.
Matthew 11:7	And as they departed, Iesus beganne to speake vnto the multitude, of Iohn, What went ye out into the wildernes to see? A reede shaken with the winde?
Matthew 11:8	But what went ye out to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they that weare soft clothing, are in Kings houses.
Matthew 11:9	But what went ye out to see? A Prophet? Yea, I say vnto you, and more then a Prophet.
Matthew 11:10	For this is he of whom it is written, Beholde, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
Matthew 11:11	Verely I say vnto you, among them which are begotten of women, arose there not a greater then Iohn Baptist: notwithstanding, he that is the least in the kingdome of heauen, is greater then he.
Matthew 11:12	And from the time of Iohn Baptist hitherto, the kingdome of heauen suffereth violence, and the violent take it by force.
Matthew 11:13	For all the Prophetes and the Lawe prophecied vnto Iohn.
Matthew 11:14	And if ye will receiue it, this is that Elias, which was to come.
Matthew 11:15	He that hath eares to heare, let him heare.
Matthew 11:16	But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like vnto litle children which sit in the markets, and call vnto their fellowes,
Matthew 11:17	And say, We haue piped vnto you, and ye haue not daunced, we haue mourned vnto you, and ye haue not lamented.
Matthew 11:18	For Iohn came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a deuill.
Matthew 11:19	The sonne of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Beholde a glutton and a drinker of wine, a friend vnto Publicanes and sinners: but wisedome is iustified of her children.
Matthew 11:20	Then began he to vpbraide the cities, wherein most of his great workes were done, because they repented not.
Matthew 11:21	Woe be to thee, Chorazin: Woe be to thee, Bethsaida: for if ye great workes, which were done in you, had bene done in Tyrus and Sidon, they had repented long agone in sackecloth and ashes.
Matthew 11:22	But I say to you, It shalbe easier for Tyrus and Sidon at the day of iudgement, then for you.
Matthew 11:23	And thou, Capernaum, which art lifted vp vnto heauen, shalt be brought downe to hell: for if the great workes, which haue bin done in thee, had bene done among them of Sodom, they had remained to this day.
Matthew 11:24	But I say vnto you, that it shall be easier for them of the land of Sodom in the day of iudgement, then for thee.
Matthew 11:25	At that time Iesus answered, and saide, I giue thee thankes, O Father, Lord of heauen and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and men of vnderstanding, and hast opened them vnto babes.
Matthew 11:26	It is so, O Father, because thy good pleasure was such.
Matthew 11:27	All things are giuen vnto me of my Father: and no man knoweth the Sonne, but ye Father: neither knoweth any man ye Father, but the Sonne, and he to whom ye Sonne will reueile him.
Matthew 11:28	Come vnto me, all ye that are wearie and laden, and I will ease you.
Matthew 11:29	Take my yoke on you, and learne of me that I am meeke and lowly in heart: and ye shall finde rest vnto your soules.
Matthew 11:30	For my yoke is easie, and my burden light.
Matthew 12:1	At that time Iesus went on a Sabbath day through ye corne, and his disciples were an hungred, and bega to plucke ye eares of corne and to eate.
Matthew 12:2	And when the Pharises sawe it, they saide vnto him, Beholde, thy disciples doe that which is not lawfull to doe vpon the Sabbath.
Matthew 12:3	But he said vnto them, Haue ye not read what Dauid did when he was an hungred, and they that were with him?
Matthew 12:4	Howe he entred into ye house of God, and did eate the shewe bread, which was not lawfull for him to eate, neither for them which were with him, but onely for the Priestes?
Matthew 12:5	Or haue ye not read in the Lawe, how that on the Sabbath dayes the Priestes in the Temple breake the Sabbath, and are blameles?
Matthew 12:6	But I say vnto you, that here is one greater then the Temple.
Matthew 12:7	Wherefore if ye knewe what this is, I will haue mercie, and not sacrifice, ye would not haue condemned the innocents.
Matthew 12:8	For the sonne of man is Lord, euen of the Sabbath.
Matthew 12:9	And he departed thence, and went into their Synagogue:
Matthew 12:10	And beholde, there was a man which had his hand dried vp. And they asked him, saying, Is it lawfull to heale vpon a Sabbath day? that they might accuse him.
Matthew 12:11	And he said vnto the, What man shall there be among you, that hath a sheepe, and if it fal on a Sabbath day into a pit, doth not take it and lift it out?
Matthew 12:12	How much more then is a man better then a sheepe? therefore, it is lawfull to doe well on a Sabbath day.
Matthew 12:13	Then said he to the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it foorth, and it was made whole as the other.
Matthew 12:14	Then the Pharises went out, and consulted against him, howe they might destroy him.
Matthew 12:15	But whe Iesus knew it, he departed thece, and great multitudes folowed him, and he healed the al,
Matthew 12:16	And charged them in threatning wise, that they should not make him knowen,
Matthew 12:17	That it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Esaias the Prophet, saying,
Matthew 12:18	Behold my seruant whom I haue chosen, my beloued in whom my soule deliteth: I wil put my Spirit on him, and he shall shewe iudgement to the Gentiles.
Matthew 12:19	He shall not striue, nor crie, neither shall any man heare his voyce in the streetes.
Matthew 12:20	A bruised reede shall he not breake, and smoking flaxe shall he not quenche, till he bring forth iudgement vnto victorie.
Matthew 12:21	And in his Name shall the Gentiles trust.
Matthew 12:22	Then was brought to him one, possessed with a deuill, both blind, and dumme, and he healed him, so that he which was blind and dumme, both spake and saw.
Matthew 12:23	And all the people were amased, and saide, Is not this that sonne of Dauid?
Matthew 12:24	But when the Pharises heard it, they saide, This man casteth the deuils no otherwise out, but through Beelzebub the prince of deuils.
Matthew 12:25	But Iesus knew their thoughtes, and said to them, Euery kingdome deuided against it selfe, is brought to nought: and euery citie or house, deuided against it selfe, shall not stand.
Matthew 12:26	So if Satan cast out Satan, he is deuided against himself: how shall then his kingdom endure?
Matthew 12:27	Also if I through Beelzebub cast out deuils, by whom doe your children cast them out? Therefore they shall be your iudges.
Matthew 12:28	But if I cast out deuils by ye Spirit of God, then is the kingdome of God come vnto you.
Matthew 12:29	Els howe can a man enter into a strong mans house and spoyle his goods, except he first bind the strong man, and then spoile his house.
Matthew 12:30	He that is not with me, is against me: and he that gathereth not with me, scattereth.
Matthew 12:31	Wherefore I say vnto you, euery sinne and blasphemie shalbe forgiuen vnto men: but the blasphemie against the holy Ghost shall not be forgiuen vnto men.
Matthew 12:32	And whosoeuer shall speake a word against the Sonne of man, it shall be forgiuen him: but whosoeuer shall speake against the holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiuen him, neither in this worlde, nor in the worlde to come.
Matthew 12:33	Either make the tree good, and his fruite good: or els make the tree euill, and his fruite euil: for the tree is knowen by the fruite.
Matthew 12:34	O generations of vipers, howe can you speake good things, when ye are euill? For of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.
Matthew 12:35	A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth foorth good things: and an euill man out of an euill treasure, bringeth forth euill things.
Matthew 12:36	But I say vnto you, that of euery idle word that men shall speake, they shall giue account thereof at the day of iudgement.
Matthew 12:37	For by thy wordes thou shalt be iustified, and by thy wordes thou shalt be condemned.
Matthew 12:38	Then answered certaine of ye Scribes and of the Pharises, saying, Master, we would see a signe of thee.
Matthew 12:39	But he answered and said to them, An euill and adulterous generation seeketh a signe, but no signe shall be giuen vnto it, saue that signe of the Prophet Ionas.
Matthew 12:40	For as Ionas was three daies and three nights in the whales belly: so shall the Sonne of man be three daies and three nights in ye heart of the earth.
Matthew 12:41	The men of Nineue shall rise in iudgement with this generation, and condemne it: for they repented at the preaching of Ionas: and behold, a greater then Ionas is here.
Matthew 12:42	The Queene of the South shall rise in iudgement with this generation, and shall condemne it: for she came from the vtmost partes of the earth to heare the wisdome of Salomon: and beholde, a greater then Salomon is here.
Matthew 12:43	Nowe when the vncleane spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh throughout drie places, seeking rest, and findeth none.
Matthew 12:44	Then he saith, I wil returne into mine house from whence I came: and when he is come, he findeth it emptie, swept and garnished.
Matthew 12:45	Then he goeth, and taketh vnto him seuen other spirites worse then himselfe, and they enter in, and dwell there: and the ende of that man is worse then the beginning. Euen so shall it be with this wicked generation.
Matthew 12:46	While he yet spake to ye multitude, beholde, his mother, and his brethren stood without, desiring to speake with him.
Matthew 12:47	Then one said vnto him, Beholde, thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speake with thee.
Matthew 12:48	But he answered, and said to him that told him, Who is my mother? and who are my brethren?
Matthew 12:49	And he stretched foorth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Beholde my mother and my brethren.
Matthew 12:50	For whosoeuer shall doe my Fathers will which is in heauen, the same is my brother and sister and mother.
Matthew 13:1	The same day went Iesus out of the house, and sate by the sea side.
Matthew 13:2	And great multitudes resorted vnto him, so that he went into a ship, and sate downe: and the whole multitude stoode on the shore.
Matthew 13:3	Then he spake many things to them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sowe.
Matthew 13:4	And as he sowed, some fell by the way side, and the foules came and deuoured them vp.
Matthew 13:5	And some fell vpon stony grounde, where they had not much earth, and anon they sprong vp, because they had no depth of earth.
Matthew 13:6	And when the sunne was vp, they were parched, and for lacke of rooting, withered away.
Matthew 13:7	And some fell among thornes, and the thornes sprong vp, and choked them.
Matthew 13:8	Some againe fel in good ground, and brought forth fruite, one corne an hundreth folde, some sixtie folde, and another thirtie folde.
Matthew 13:9	He that hath eares to heare, let him heare.
Matthew 13:10	Then the disciples came, and said to him, Why speakest thou to them in parables?
Matthew 13:11	And he answered, and said vnto them, Because it is giuen vnto you, to know the secretes of the kingdome of heauen, but to the it is not giue.
Matthew 13:12	For whosoeuer hath, to him shalbe giuen, and he shall haue abundance: but whosoeuer hath not, from him shalbe taken away, euen that he hath.
Matthew 13:13	Therefore speake I to them in parables, because they seeing, doe not see: and hearing, they heare not, neither vnderstand.
Matthew 13:14	So in them is fulfilled the prophecie of Esaias, which prophecie saieth, By hearing, ye shall heare, and shall not vnderstand, and seeing, ye shall see, and shall not perceiue.
Matthew 13:15	For this peoples heart is waxed fat, and their eares are dull of hearing, and with their eyes they haue winked, lest they should see with their eyes, and heare with their eares, and should vnderstand with their hearts, and should returne, that I might heale them.
Matthew 13:16	But blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your eares, for they heare.
Matthew 13:17	For verely I say vnto you, that many Prophets, and righteous men haue desired to see those things which ye see, and haue not seene them, and to heare those things which ye heare, and haue not heard them.
Matthew 13:18	Heare ye therefore ye parable of ye sower.
Matthew 13:19	Whensoeuer any man heareth the woorde of that kingdome, and vnderstandeth it not, that euil one commeth, and catcheth away that which was sowen in his heart: and this is he which hath receiued the seede by the way side.
Matthew 13:20	And hee that receiued seede in the stonie grounde, is he which heareth the woorde, and incontinently with ioy receiueth it,
Matthew 13:21	Yet hath he no roote in himselfe, and dureth but a season: for assoone as tribulation or persecution commeth because of the woorde, by and by he is offended.
Matthew 13:22	And hee that receiued the seede among thornes, is hee that heareth the woorde: but the care of this worlde, and the deceitfulnesse of riches choke the word, and he is made vnfruitfull.
Matthew 13:23	But he that receiued the seede in the good ground, is he that heareth the worde, and vnderstandeth it, which also beareth fruite, and bringeth foorth, some an hundreth folde, some sixtie folde, and some thirtie folde.
Matthew 13:24	Another parable put hee foorth vnto them, saying, The kingdome of heauen is like vnto a man which sowed good seede in his fielde.
Matthew 13:25	But while men slept, there came his enemie, and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his waie.
Matthew 13:26	And when the blade was sprong vp, and brought forth fruite, then appeared the tares also.
Matthew 13:27	Then came the seruaunts of the housholder, and sayd vnto him, Master, sowedst not thou good seede in thy fielde? from whence then hath it tares?
Matthew 13:28	And hee said to them, Some enuious man hath done this. Then the seruants saide vnto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them vp?
Matthew 13:29	But he saide, Nay, lest while yee goe about to gather the tares, yee plucke vp also with them the wheat.
Matthew 13:30	Let both growe together vntill the haruest, and in time of haruest I will say to the reapers, Gather yee first the tares, and binde them in sheaues to burne them: but gather the wheate into my barne.
Matthew 13:31	Another parable he put foorth vnto them, saying, The kingdome of heauen is like vnto a graine of mustard seede, which a man taketh and soweth in his fielde:
Matthew 13:32	Which in deede is the least of all seedes: but when it is growen, it is the greatest among herbes, and it is a tree, so that the birdes of heauen come and builde in the branches thereof.
Matthew 13:33	Another parable spake hee to them, The kingdome of heauen is like vnto leauen, which a woman taketh and hideth in three pecks of meale, till all be leauened.
Matthew 13:34	All these thinges spake Iesus vnto the multitude in parables, and without parables spake he not to them,
Matthew 13:35	That it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Prophet, saying, I will open my mouth in parables, and will vtter the thinges which haue beene kept secrete from the foundation of the worlde.
Matthew 13:36	Then sent Iesus the multitude away, and went into the house. And his disciples came vnto him, saying, Declare vnto vs the parable of the tares of that fielde.
Matthew 13:37	Then answered he, and saide to them, He that soweth the good seede, is the Sonne of man.
Matthew 13:38	And the field is the worlde, and the good seede are the children of the kingdome, and the tares are the children of that wicked one.
Matthew 13:39	And the enemie that soweth them, is the deuill, and the haruest is the end of the worlde, and the reapers be the Angels.
Matthew 13:40	As then the tares are gathered and burned in ye fire, so shall it be in the end of this world.
Matthew 13:41	The Sonne of man shall send forth his Angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which doe iniquitie,
Matthew 13:42	And shall cast them into a fornace of fire. There shalbe wailing and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 13:43	Then shall the iust men shine as ye sunne in the kingdome of their Father. Hee that hath eares to heare, let him heare.
Matthew 13:44	Againe, the kingdom of heauen is like vnto a treasure hid in ye field, which when a man hath found, he hideth it, and for ioy thereof departeth and selleth all that he hath, and buieth that field.
Matthew 13:45	Againe, the kingdome of heauen is like to a marchant man, that seeketh good pearles,
Matthew 13:46	Who hauing found a pearle of great price, went and solde all that he had, and bought it.
Matthew 13:47	Againe, the kingdom of heauen is like vnto a drawe net cast into the sea, that gathereth of all kindes of things.
Matthew 13:48	Which, when it is full, men draw to lande, and sit and gather the good into vessels, and cast the bad away.
Matthew 13:49	So shall it be at the end of the world. The Angels shall goe foorth, and seuer the bad from among the iust,
Matthew 13:50	And shall cast them into a fornace of fire: there shalbe wailing, and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 13:51	Iesus saide vnto them, Vnderstand yee all these things? They saide vnto him, Yea, Lord.
Matthew 13:52	Then sayd hee vnto them, Therefore euery Scribe which is taught vnto the kingdome of heauen, is like vnto an householder, which bringeth foorth out of his treasure things both newe and olde.
Matthew 13:53	And it came to passe, that when Iesus had ended these parables, he departed thence,
Matthew 13:54	And came into his owne countrey, and taught them in their Synagogue, so that they were astonied, and saide, Whence commeth this wisdome and great woorkes vnto this man?
Matthew 13:55	Is not this the carpenters sonne? Is not his mother called Marie, and his brethren Iames and Ioses, and Simon and Iudas?
Matthew 13:56	And are not his sisters all with vs? Whence then hath he all these things?
Matthew 13:57	And they were offended with him. Then Iesus said to them, A Prophet is not without honour, saue in his owne countrey, and in his owne house.
Matthew 13:58	And he did not many great woorkes there, for their vnbeliefes sake.
Matthew 14:1	At that time Herod the Tetrarche heard of the fame of Iesus,
Matthew 14:2	And sayde vnto his seruaunts, This is that Iohn Baptist, hee is risen againe from the deade, and therefore great woorkes are wrought by him.
Matthew 14:3	For Herod had taken Iohn, and bounde him, and put him in prison for Herodias sake, his brother Philips wife.
Matthew 14:4	For Iohn saide vnto him, It is not lawfull for thee to haue her.
Matthew 14:5	And when hee woulde haue put him to death, hee feared the multitude, because they counted him as a Prophet.
Matthew 14:6	But when Herods birth day was kept, the daughter of Herodias daunced before them, and pleased Herod.
Matthew 14:7	Wherefore he promised with an othe, that he would giue her whatsoeuer she would aske.
Matthew 14:8	And shee being before instructed of her mother, sayde, Giue mee here Iohn Baptists head in a platter.
Matthew 14:9	And the King was sorie: neuerthelesse because of the othe, and them that sate with him at the table, he commanded it to be giuen her,
Matthew 14:10	And sent, and beheaded Iohn in the prison.
Matthew 14:11	And his head was brought in a platter, and giuen to the maide, and shee brought it vnto her mother.
Matthew 14:12	And his disciples came, and tooke vp the bodie, and buried it, and went, and tolde Iesus.
Matthew 14:13	And when Iesus heard it, hee departed thence by shippe into a desert place apart. And when the multitude had heard it, they followed him on foote out of the cities.
Matthew 14:14	And Iesus went foorth and sawe a great multitude, and was mooued with compassion toward them, and he healed their sicke.
Matthew 14:15	And when euen was come, his disciples came to him, saying, This is a desart place, and the time is alreadie past: let the multitude depart, that they may goe into the townes, and bye them vitailes.
Matthew 14:16	But Iesus saide to them, They haue no neede to goe away: giue yee them to eate.
Matthew 14:17	Then saide they vnto him, Wee haue here but fiue loaues, and two fishes.
Matthew 14:18	And he saide, Bring them hither to me.
Matthew 14:19	And hee commanded the multitude to sit downe on the grasse, and tooke the fiue loaues and the two fishes, and looked vp to heauen and blessed, and brake, and gaue the loaues to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.
Matthew 14:20	And they did all eate, and were sufficed, and they tooke vp of the fragments that remained, twelue baskets full.
Matthew 14:21	And they that had eaten, were about fiue thousande men, beside women and litle children.
Matthew 14:22	And straightway Iesus compelled his disciples to enter into a shippe, and to goe ouer before him, while he sent the multitude away.
Matthew 14:23	And assoone as hee had sent the multitude away, he went vp into a moutaine alone to pray: and when the euening was come, hee was there alone.
Matthew 14:24	And the shippe was nowe in the middes of the sea, and was tossed with waues: for it was a contrarie winde.
Matthew 14:25	And in the fourth watch of the night, Iesus went vnto them, walking on the sea.
Matthew 14:26	And when his disciples sawe him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit, and cried out for feare.
Matthew 14:27	But straight way Iesus spake vnto them, saying, Be of good comfort, It is I: be not afraide.
Matthew 14:28	Then Peter answered him, and saide, Master, if it be thou, bid me come vnto thee on the water.
Matthew 14:29	And he saide, Come. And when Peter was come downe out of the shippe, he walked on the water, to goe to Iesus.
Matthew 14:30	But when he sawe a mightie winde, he was afraide: and as he began to sinke, he cried, saying, Master, saue me.
Matthew 14:31	So immediatly Iesus stretched foorth his hande, and caught him, and saide to him, O thou of litle faith, wherefore diddest thou doubt?
Matthew 14:32	And assoone as they were come into the ship, the winde ceased.
Matthew 14:33	Then they that were in the ship, came and worshipped him, saying, Of a trueth thou art the Sonne of God.
Matthew 14:34	And when they were come ouer, they came into the land of Gennezaret.
Matthew 14:35	And when the men of that place knewe him, they sent out into all that countrey rounde about, and brought vnto him all that were sicke,
Matthew 14:36	And besought him, that they might touch the hemme of his garment onely: and as many as touched it, were made whole.
Matthew 15:1	Then came to Iesus the Scribes and Pharises, which were of Hierusalem, saying,
Matthew 15:2	Why do thy disciples transgresse the tradition of the Elders? for they wash not their hands when they eate bread.
Matthew 15:3	But he answered and said vnto them, Why doe yee also transgresse the commandement of God by your tradition?
Matthew 15:4	For God hath commanded, saying, Honour thy father and mother: and he that curseth father or mother, let him die the death.
Matthew 15:5	But ye say, Whosoeuer shall say to father or mother, By the gift that is offered by me, thou maiest haue profite,
Matthew 15:6	Though hee honour not his father, or his mother, shalbe free: thus haue ye made the commandement of God of no aucthoritie by your tradition.
Matthew 15:7	O hypocrites, Esaias prophecied well of you, saying,
Matthew 15:8	This people draweth neere vnto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with the lips, but their heart is farre off from me.
Matthew 15:9	But in vaine they worship me, teaching for doctrines, mens precepts.
Matthew 15:10	Then hee called the multitude vnto him, and said to them, Heare and vnderstand.
Matthew 15:11	That which goeth into the mouth, defileth not the man, but that which commeth out of the mouth, that defileth the man.
Matthew 15:12	Then came his disciples, and saide vnto him, Perceiuest thou not, that the Pharises are offended in hearing this saying?
Matthew 15:13	But hee answered and saide, Euery plant which mine heauenly Father hath not planted, shalbe rooted vp.
Matthew 15:14	Let them alone, they be the blinde leaders of the blinde: and if the blinde leade ye blinde, both shall fall into the ditche.
Matthew 15:15	Then answered Peter, and said to him, Declare vnto vs this parable.
Matthew 15:16	Then said Iesus, Are ye yet without vnderstanding?
Matthew 15:17	Perceiue ye not yet, that whatsoeuer entreth into the mouth, goeth into the bellie, and is cast out into the draught?
Matthew 15:18	But those thinges which proceede out of the mouth, come from the heart, and they defile the man.
Matthew 15:19	For out of the heart come euil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false testimonies, slaunders.
Matthew 15:20	These are the things, which defile the man: but to eat with vnwashen hands, defileth not ye man.
Matthew 15:21	And Iesus went thence, and departed into the coastes of Tyrus and Sidon.
Matthew 15:22	And beholde, a woman a Cananite came out of the same coasts, and cried, saying vnto him, Haue mercie on me, O Lord, the sonne of Dauid: my daughter is miserably vexed with a deuil.
Matthew 15:23	But hee answered her not a worde. Then came to him his disciples, and besought him, saying, Sende her away, for she crieth after vs.
Matthew 15:24	But he answered, and said, I am not sent, but vnto the lost sheepe of the house of Israel.
Matthew 15:25	Yet she came, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, helpe me.
Matthew 15:26	And he answered, and said, It is not good to take the childrens bread, and to cast it to whelps.
Matthew 15:27	But she said, Trueth, Lord: yet in deede the whelpes eate of the crommes, which fall from their masters table.
Matthew 15:28	Then Iesus answered, and saide vnto her, O woman, great is thy faith: be it to thee, as thou desirest. And her daughter was made whole at that houre.
Matthew 15:29	So Iesus went away from thence, and came neere vnto the sea of Galile, and went vp into a mountaine and sate downe there.
Matthew 15:30	And great multitudes came vnto him, hauing with them, halt, blinde, dumme, maymed, and many other, and cast them downe at Iesus feete, and he healed them.
Matthew 15:31	In so much that the multitude wondered, to see the dumme speake, the maimed whole, the halt to goe, and the blinde to see: and they glorified the God of Israel.
Matthew 15:32	Then Iesus called his disciples vnto him, and said, I haue compassion on this multitude, because they haue continued with mee already three dayes, and haue nothing to eate: and I wil not let them depart fasting, least they faint in the way.
Matthew 15:33	And his disciples saide vnto him, Whence should we get so much bread in the wildernes, as should suffice so great a multitude!
Matthew 15:34	And Iesus said vnto them, How many loaues haue ye? And they said, Seuen, and a few litle fishes.
Matthew 15:35	Then he commanded the multitude to sit downe on the ground,
Matthew 15:36	And tooke the seuen loaues, and the fishes, and gaue thankes, and brake them, and gaue to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.
Matthew 15:37	And they did all eate, and were sufficed: and they tooke vp of the fragments that remained, seuen baskets full.
Matthew 15:38	And they that had eaten, were foure thousand men, beside women, and litle children.
Matthew 15:39	Then Iesus sent away the multitude, and tooke ship, and came into the partes of Magdala.
Matthew 16:1	Then came the Pharises and Sadduces, and did tempt him, desiring him to shew them a signe from heauen.
Matthew 16:2	But he answered, and said vnto them, When it is euening, ye say, Faire wether: for ye skie is red.
Matthew 16:3	And in the morning ye say, To day shall be a tempest: for the skie is red and lowring. O hypocrites, ye can discerne the face of the skie, and can ye not discerne the signes of the times?
Matthew 16:4	The wicked generation, and adulterous seeketh a signe, but there shall no signe be giuen it, but that signe of the Prophet Ionas: so hee left them, and departed.
Matthew 16:5	And when his disciples were come to the other side, they had forgotten to take bread with them.
Matthew 16:6	Then Iesus said vnto them, Take heede and beware of the leauen of the Pharises and Sadduces.
Matthew 16:7	And they reasoned among themselues, saying, It is because we haue brought no bread.
Matthew 16:8	But Iesus knowing it, saide vnto them, O ye of litle faith, why reason you thus among your selues, because ye haue brought no bread?
Matthew 16:9	Doe ye not yet perceiue, neither remember the fiue loaues, when there were fiue thousand men, and how many baskets tooke ye vp?
Matthew 16:10	Neither the seuen loaues when there were foure thousande men, and howe many baskets tooke ye vp?
Matthew 16:11	Why perceiue ye not that I said not vnto you concerning bread, that ye shoulde beware of the leauen of the Pharises and Sadduces?
Matthew 16:12	Then vnderstood they that he had not said that they should beware of the leauen of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharises, and Sadduces.
Matthew 16:13	Nowe when Iesus came into the coastes of Cesarea Philippi, hee asked his disciples, saying, Whome doe men say that I, the sonne of man am?
Matthew 16:14	And they said, Some say, Iohn Baptist: and some, Elias: and others, Ieremias, or one of the Prophets.
Matthew 16:15	He said vnto them, But whome say ye that I am?
Matthew 16:16	Then Simon Peter answered, and said, Thou art that Christ, the Sonne of the liuing God.
Matthew 16:17	And Iesus answered, and saide to him, Blessed art thou, Simon, the sonne of Ionas: for flesh and blood hath not reueiled it vnto thee, but my Father which is in heauen.
Matthew 16:18	And I say also vnto thee, that thou art Peter, and vpon this rocke I will builde my Church: and ye gates of hell shall not ouercome it.
Matthew 16:19	And I will giue vnto thee the keyes of the kingdome of heauen, and whatsoeuer thou shalt binde vpon earth, shalbe bound in heauen: and whatsoeuer thou shalt loose on earth, shall be loosed in heauen.
Matthew 16:20	Then hee charged his disciples, that they should tell no man that he was Iesus that Christ.
Matthew 16:21	From that time foorth Iesus beganne to shewe vnto his disciples, that he must goe vnto Hierusalem, and suffer many thinges of the Elders, and of the hie Priestes, and Scribes, and be slaine, and be raised againe the thirde day.
Matthew 16:22	Then Peter tooke him aside, and began to rebuke him, saying, Master, pitie thy selfe: this shall not be vnto thee.
Matthew 16:23	Then he turned backe, and said vnto Peter, Get thee behinde me, Satan: thou art an offence vnto me, because thou vnderstandest not the thinges that are of God, but the thinges that are of men.
Matthew 16:24	Iesus then saide to his disciples, If any man will follow me, let him forsake himselfe: and take vp his crosse, and follow me.
Matthew 16:25	For whosoeuer will saue his life, shall lose it: and whosoeuer shall lose his life for my sake, shall finde it.
Matthew 16:26	For what shall it profite a man though he should winne the whole worlde, if hee lose his owne soule? or what shall a man giue for recompence of his soule?
Matthew 16:27	For the Sonne of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his Angels, and then shall he giue to euery man according to his deedes.
Matthew 16:28	Verely I say vnto you, there bee some of them that stande here, which shall not taste of death, till they haue seene the Sonne of man come in his kingdome.
Matthew 17:1	And after sixe dayes, Iesus tooke Peter, and Iames and Iohn his brother, and brought them vp into an hie mountaine apart,
Matthew 17:2	And was transfigured before them: and his face did shine as the Sunne, and his clothes were as white as the light.
Matthew 17:3	And beholde, there appeared vnto them Moses, and Elias, talking with him.
Matthew 17:4	Then answered Peter, and saide to Iesus, Master, it is good for vs to be here: if thou wilt, let vs make here three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
Matthew 17:5	While he yet spake, behold, a bright cloude shadowed them: and beholde, there came a voyce out of the cloude, saying, This is that my beloued Sonne, in whom I am well pleased: heare him.
Matthew 17:6	And when the disciples heard that, they fell on their faces, and were sore afraide.
Matthew 17:7	Then Iesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not afraide.
Matthew 17:8	And when they lifted vp their eyes, they sawe no man, saue Iesus onely.
Matthew 17:9	And as they came downe from the moutaine, Iesus charged them, saying, Shewe the vision to no man, vntil the Sonne of man rise againe from the dead.
Matthew 17:10	And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then say the Scribes that Elias must first come?
Matthew 17:11	And Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, Certeinely Elias must first come, and restore all thinges.
Matthew 17:12	But I say vnto you that Elias is come alreadie, and they knewe him not, but haue done vnto him whatsoeuer they would: likewise shall also the Sonne of man suffer of them.
Matthew 17:13	Then the disciples perceiued that he spake vnto them of Iohn Baptist.
Matthew 17:14	And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certaine man, and fell downe at his feete,
Matthew 17:15	And saide, Master, haue pitie on my sonne: for he is lunatike, and is sore vexed: for oft times he falleth into the fire, and oft times into the water.
Matthew 17:16	And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not heale him.
Matthew 17:17	Then Iesus answered, and said, O generation faithlesse, and crooked, how long now shall I be with you! howe long nowe shall I suffer you! bring him hither to me.
Matthew 17:18	And Iesus rebuked the deuill, and he went out of him: and the childe was healed at that houre.
Matthew 17:19	Then came the disciples to Iesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast him out?
Matthew 17:20	And Iesus said vnto them, Because of your vnbeliefe: for verely I say vnto you, if ye haue faith as much as is a graine of mustarde seede, ye shall say vnto this mountaine, Remooue hence to yonder place, and it shall remoue: and nothing shalbe vnpossible vnto you.
Matthew 17:21	Howbeit this kinde goeth not out, but by prayer and fasting.
Matthew 17:22	And they being in Galile, Iesus said vnto them, The Sonne of man shall be deliuered into the handes of men,
Matthew 17:23	And they shall kill him, but the thirde day shall he rise againe: and they were very sorie.
Matthew 17:24	And when they were come to Capernaum, they that receiued polle money, came to Peter, and sayd, Doeth not your Master pay polle money?
Matthew 17:25	He sayd, Yes. And when he was come into the house, Iesus preuented him, saying, What thinkest thou, Simon? Of whome doe the Kings of the earth take tribute, or polle money? of their children, or of strangers?
Matthew 17:26	Peter sayd vnto him, Of strangers. Then said Iesus vnto him, Then are the children free.
Matthew 17:27	Neuerthelesse, lest we should offend them: goe to the sea, and cast in an angle, and take the first fish that commeth vp, and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt finde a piece of twentie pence: that take, and giue it vnto them for me and thee.
Matthew 18:1	The same time the disciples came vnto Iesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdome of heauen?
Matthew 18:2	And Iesus called a litle childe vnto him, and set him in the mids of them,
Matthew 18:3	And sayd, Verely I say vnto you, except ye be conuerted, and become as litle children, ye shall not enter into the kingdome of heauen.
Matthew 18:4	Whosoeuer therefore shall humble himselfe as this litle childe, the same is the greatest in the kingdome of heauen.
Matthew 18:5	And whosoeuer shall receiue one such litle childe in my name, receiueth me.
Matthew 18:6	But whosoeuer shall offend one of these litle ones which beleeue in me, it were better for him, that a milstone were hanged about his necke, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea.
Matthew 18:7	Wo be vnto the world because of offences: for it must needes be that offences shall come, but wo be to that man by whome the offence commeth.
Matthew 18:8	Wherefore, if thy hand or thy foote cause thee to offend, cut them off, and cast them from thee: it is better for thee to enter into life, halt, or maimed, then hauing two hands, or two feete, to be cast into euerlasting fire.
Matthew 18:9	And if thine eye cause thee to offende, plucke it out, and cast it from thee: it is better for thee to enter into life with one eye, then hauing two eyes to be cast into hell fire.
Matthew 18:10	See that ye despise not one of these litle ones: for I say vnto you, that in heauen their Angels alwayes behold the face of my Father which is in heauen.
Matthew 18:11	For the Sonne of man is come to saue that which was lost.
Matthew 18:12	How thinke ye? If a man haue an hundreth sheepe, and one of them be gone astray, doeth he not leaue ninetie and nine, and go into the mountaines, and seeke that which is gone astray?
Matthew 18:13	And if so be that he finde it, verely I say vnto you, he reioyceth more of that sheepe, then of the ninetie and nine which went not astray:
Matthew 18:14	So is it not ye wil of your Father which is in heauen, that one of these litle ones should perish.
Matthew 18:15	Moreouer, if thy brother trespasse against thee, goe and tell him his fault betweene thee and him alone: if he heare thee, thou hast wonne thy brother.
Matthew 18:16	But if he heare thee not, take yet with thee one or two, that by the mouth of two or three witnesses euery worde may be confirmed.
Matthew 18:17	And if he refuse to heare them, tell it vnto the Church: and if he refuse to heare the Church also, let him be vnto thee as an heathen man, and a Publicane.
Matthew 18:18	Verely I say vnto you, Whatsoeuer ye bind on earth, shall be bound in heauen: and whatsoeuer ye loose on earth, shalbe loosed in heauen.
Matthew 18:19	Againe, verely I say vnto you, that if two of you shall agree in earth vpon any thing, whatsoeuer they shall desire, it shall be giuen them of my Father which is in heauen.
Matthew 18:20	For where two or three are gathered together in my Name, there am I in the mids of them.
Matthew 18:21	Then came Peter to him, and said, Master, howe oft shall my brother sinne against me, and I shall forgiue him? vnto seuen times?
Matthew 18:22	Iesus said vnto him, I say not to thee, Vnto seuen times, but, Vnto seuentie times seuen times.
Matthew 18:23	Therefore is the kingdome of heauen likened vnto a certaine King, which would take an account of his seruants.
Matthew 18:24	And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought vnto him, which ought him ten thousand talents.
Matthew 18:25	And because he had nothing to pay, his Lord commanded him to be solde, and his wife, and his children, and all that he had, and the dette to be payed.
Matthew 18:26	The seruant therefore fell downe, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, refraine thine anger toward me, and I will pay thee all.
Matthew 18:27	Then that seruants Lord had compassion, and loosed him, and forgaue him the dette.
Matthew 18:28	But when the seruant was departed, hee found one of his felow seruants, which ought him an hundred pence, and he layde hands on him, and thratled him, saying, Pay me that thou owest.
Matthew 18:29	Then his fellow seruant fell downe at his feete, and besought him, saying, Refraine thine anger towards me, and I will pay thee all.
Matthew 18:30	Yet he would not, but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the dette.
Matthew 18:31	And when his other felowe seruants sawe what was done, they were very sory, and came, and declared vnto their Lord all that was done.
Matthew 18:32	Then his Lord called him vnto him, and sayd to him, O euil seruant, I forgaue thee all that dette, because thou prayedst me.
Matthew 18:33	Oughtest not thou also to haue had pitie on thy fellowe seruant, euen as I had pitie on thee?
Matthew 18:34	So his Lord was wroth, and deliuered him to the tormentours, till he should pay all that was due to him.
Matthew 18:35	So likewise shall mine heauenly Father doe vnto you, except ye forgiue from your hearts, eche one to his brother their trespasses.
Matthew 19:1	And it came to passe, that when Iesus had finished these sayings, he departed from Galile, and came into ye coasts of Iudea beyond Iordan.
Matthew 19:2	And great multitudes followed him, and he healed them there.
Matthew 19:3	Then came vnto him the Pharises tempting him, and saying to him, Is it lawfull for a man to put away his wife vpon euery occasion?
Matthew 19:4	And he answered and sayd vnto them, Haue ye not read, that hee which made them at the beginning, made them male and female,
Matthew 19:5	And sayd, For this cause, shall a man leaue father and mother, and cleaue vnto his wife, and they which were two shalbe one flesh.
Matthew 19:6	Wherefore they are no more twaine, but one flesh. Let not man therefore put asunder that, which God hath coupled together.
Matthew 19:7	They said to him, Why did then Moses commaund to giue a bill of diuorcement, and to put her away?
Matthew 19:8	He sayd vnto them, Moses, because of the hardnesse of your heart, suffered you to put away your wiues: but from the beginning it was not so.
Matthew 19:9	I say therefore vnto you, that whosoeuer shall put away his wife, except it be for whoredome, and marry another, committeth adulterie: and whosoeuer marieth her which is diuorced, doeth commit adulterie.
Matthew 19:10	Then sayd his disciples to him, If the matter be so betweene man and wife, it is not good to marry.
Matthew 19:11	But he sayd vnto them, All men cannot receiue this thing, saue they to whom it is giuen.
Matthew 19:12	For there are some eunuches, which were so borne of their mothers belly: and there be some eunuches, which be gelded by men: and there be some eunuches, which haue gelded them selues for the kingdome of heauen. He that is able to receiue this, let him receiue it.
Matthew 19:13	Then were brought to him litle children, that he should put his hands on them, and pray: and the disciples rebuked them.
Matthew 19:14	But Iesus sayd, Suffer the litle children, and forbid them not to come to me: for of such is the kingdome of heauen.
Matthew 19:15	And when he had put his hands on them, he departed thence.
Matthew 19:16	And beholde, one came and sayd vnto him, Good Master, what good thing shall I doe, that I may haue eternall life?
Matthew 19:17	And he said vnto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, eue God: but if thou wilt enter into life, keepe ye commandemets.
Matthew 19:18	He sayd to him, Which? And Iesus sayde, These, Thou shalt not kill: Thou shalt not commit adulterie: Thou shalt not steale: Thou shalt not beare false witnesse.
Matthew 19:19	Honour thy father and mother: and thou shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe.
Matthew 19:20	The yong man sayd vnto him, I haue obserued all these things from my youth: what lacke I yet?
Matthew 19:21	Iesus sayd vnto him, If thou wilt be perfite, go, sell that thou hast, and giue it to the poore, and thou shalt haue treasure in heauen, and come, and follow me.
Matthew 19:22	And when the yong man heard that saying, he went away sorowfull: for he had great possessions.
Matthew 19:23	Then Iesus sayd vnto his disciples, Verely I say vnto you, that a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdome of heauen.
Matthew 19:24	And againe I say vnto you, It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, then for a rich man to enter into ye kingdome of God.
Matthew 19:25	And whe his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amased, saying, Who then can be saued?
Matthew 19:26	And Iesus behelde them, and sayde vnto them, With men this is vnpossible, but with God all things are possible.
Matthew 19:27	Then answered Peter, and said to him, Beholde, we haue forsaken all, and followed thee: what therefore shall we haue?
Matthew 19:28	And Iesus said vnto them, Verely I say to you, that when the Sonne of man shall sit in the throne of his maiestie, ye which folowed me in the regeneration, shall sit also vpon twelue thrones and iudge the twelue tribes of Israel.
Matthew 19:29	And whosoeuer shall forsake houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my Names sake, he shall receiue an hundreth folde more, and shall inherite euerlasting life.
Matthew 19:30	But many that are first, shalbe last, and the last shalbe first.
Matthew 20:1	For the kingdome of heauen is like vnto a certaine, housholder, which went out at the dawning of the day to hire labourers into his vineyarde.
Matthew 20:2	And he agreed with the labourers for a peny a day, and sent them into his vineyard.
Matthew 20:3	And he went out about the third houre, and sawe other standing idle in the market place,
Matthew 20:4	And sayd vnto them, Goe ye also into my vineyard, and whatsoeuer is right, I will giue you: and they went their way.
Matthew 20:5	Againe he went out about the sixt and ninth houre, and did likewise.
Matthew 20:6	And he went about the eleuenth houre, and found other standing idle, and sayd vnto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle?
Matthew 20:7	They sayd vnto him, Because no man hath hired vs. He sayd to them, Goe ye also into my vineyard, and whatsoeuer is right, that shall ye receiue.
Matthew 20:8	And when euen was come, the master of the vineyard sayd vnto his steward, Call the labourers, and giue them their hire, beginning at the last, till thou come to the first.
Matthew 20:9	And they which were hired about ye eleuenth houre, came and receiued euery man a penie.
Matthew 20:10	Nowe when the first came, they supposed that they should receiue more, but they likewise receiued euery man a penie.
Matthew 20:11	And when they had receiued it, they murmured against the master of the house,
Matthew 20:12	Saying, These last haue wrought but one houre, and thou hast made them equall vnto vs, which haue borne the burden and heate of the day.
Matthew 20:13	And hee answered one of them, saying, Friend, I doe thee no wrong: didst thou not agree with me for a penie?
Matthew 20:14	Take that which is thine owne, and go thy way: I will giue vnto this last, as much as to thee.
Matthew 20:15	Is it not lawfull for me to do as I will with mine owne? Is thine eye euil, because I am good?
Matthew 20:16	So the last shalbe first, and the first last: for many are called, but fewe chosen.
Matthew 20:17	And Iesus went vp to Hierusalem, and tooke the twelue disciples apart in the way, and said vnto them,
Matthew 20:18	Beholde, wee goe vp to Hierusalem, and the Sonne of man shall bee deliuered vnto the chiefe priestes, and vnto the Scribes, and they shall condemne him to death,
Matthew 20:19	And shall deliuer him to the Gentiles, to mocke, and to scourge, and to crucifie him, but the third day he shall rise againe.
Matthew 20:20	Then came to him the mother of Zebedeus children with her sonnes, worshipping him, and desiring a certaine thing of him.
Matthew 20:21	And he said vnto her, What wouldest thou? She said to him, Graunt that these my two sonnes may sit, the one at thy right hand, and the other at thy left hand in thy kingdome.
Matthew 20:22	And Iesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye aske. Are ye able to drinke of the cup that I shall drinke of, and to be baptized with the baptisme that I shalbe baptized with? They said to him, We are able.
Matthew 20:23	And he said vnto them, Ye shall drinke in deede of my cup, and shall be baptized with the baptisme, that I am baptized with, but to sit at my right hande, and at my left hand, is not mine to giue: but it shalbe giuen to them for whome it is prepared of my Father.
Matthew 20:24	And when the other ten heard this, they disdained at the two brethren.
Matthew 20:25	Therefore Iesus called them vnto him, and saide, We knowe that the lordes of the Gentiles haue domination ouer them, and they that are great, exercise authoritie ouer them.
Matthew 20:26	But it shall not be so among you: but whosoeuer will be great among you, let him be your seruant.
Matthew 20:27	And whosoeuer will be chiefe among you, let him be your seruant.
Matthew 20:28	Euen as the Sonne of man came not to be serued, but to serue, and to giue his life for the ransome of many.
Matthew 20:29	And as they departed from Iericho, a great multitude followed him.
Matthew 20:30	And beholde, two blinde men, sitting by the way side, when they heard that Iesus passed by, cryed, saying, O Lord, the Sonne of Dauid, haue mercie on vs.
Matthew 20:31	And the multitude rebuked them, because they should holde their peace: but they cried the more, saying, O Lord, the Sonne of Dauid, haue mercie on vs.
Matthew 20:32	Then Iesus stoode still, and called them, and said, What will ye that I should do to you?
Matthew 20:33	They saide to him, Lord, that our eyes may be opened.
Matthew 20:34	And Iesus mooued with compassion, touched their eyes, and immediatly their eyes receiued sight, and they followed him.
Matthew 21:1	And when they drewe neere to Hierusalem, and were come to Bethphage, vnto the mount of the Oliues, then sent Iesus two disciples,
Matthew 21:2	Saying to them, Goe into the towne that is ouer against you, and anon yee shall finde an asse bounde, and a colt with her: loose them, and bring them vnto me.
Matthew 21:3	And if any man say ought vnto you, say ye, that the Lord hath neede of them, and straightway he will let them goe.
Matthew 21:4	All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Prophet, saying,
Matthew 21:5	Tell ye the daughter of Sion, Beholde, thy King commeth vnto thee, meeke and sitting vpon an asse, and a colte, the foale of an asse vsed to the yoke.
Matthew 21:6	So the disciples went, and did as Iesus had commanded them,
Matthew 21:7	And brought the asse and the colt, and put on them their clothes, and set him thereon.
Matthew 21:8	And a great multitude spred their garments in the way: and other cut downe branches from the trees, and strawed them in the way.
Matthew 21:9	Moreouer, the people that went before, and they also that followed, cried, saying, Hosanna to the Sonne of Dauid, Blessed be hee that commeth in the Name of the Lord, Hosanna thou which art in the highest heauens.
Matthew 21:10	And when he was come into Hierusalem, all the citie was mooued, saying, Who is this?
Matthew 21:11	And the people said, This is Iesus that Prophet of Nazareth in Galile.
Matthew 21:12	And Iesus went into the Temple of God, and cast out all them that solde and bought in the Temple, and ouerthrew the tables of the money chagers, and the seates of them that sold doues,
Matthew 21:13	And said to them, it is written, My house shall be called the house of prayer: but ye haue made it a denne of theeues.
Matthew 21:14	Then the blinde, and the halt came to him in the Temple, and he healed them.
Matthew 21:15	But when the chiefe priestes and Scribes sawe the marueiles that hee did, and the children crying in the Temple, and saying, Hosanna to the Sonne of Dauid, they disdained,
Matthew 21:16	And said vnto him, Hearest thou what these say? And Iesus said vnto them, Yea: read ye neuer, By the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast made perfite the praise?
Matthew 21:17	So hee left them, and went out of the citie vnto Bethania, and lodged there.
Matthew 21:18	And in the morning, as he returned into the citie, he was hungrie,
Matthew 21:19	And seeing a figge tree in the way, he came to it, and found nothing thereon, but leaues onely, and said to it, Neuer fruite grow on thee henceforwards. And anon the figge tree withered.
Matthew 21:20	And when his disciples saw it, they marueiled, saying, How soone is the figge tree withered!
Matthew 21:21	And Iesus answered and said vnto them, Verely I say vnto you, if ye haue faith, and doubt not, ye shall not only doe that, which I haue done to the figge tree, but also if ye say vnto this mountaine, Take thy selfe away, and cast thy selfe into the sea, it shalbe done.
Matthew 21:22	And whatsoeuer ye shall aske in prayer, if ye beleeue, ye shall receiue it.
Matthew 21:23	And whe he was come into the Temple, the chiefe Priestes, and the Elders of the people came vnto him, as he was teaching, and saide, By what authoritie doest thou these things? and who gaue thee this authoritie?
Matthew 21:24	Then Iesus answered and said vnto them, I also will aske of you a certaine thing, which if ye tell me, I likewise will tell you by what authoritie I doe these things.
Matthew 21:25	The baptisme of Iohn, whence was it? from heauen, or of men? Then they reasoned among themselues, saying, If we shall say, From heauen, he will say vnto vs, Why did ye not then beleeue him?
Matthew 21:26	And if we say, Of men, we feare the multitude, for all holde Iohn as a Prophet.
Matthew 21:27	Then they answered Iesus, and said, We can not tell. And he said vnto them, Neither tell I you by what authoritie I doe these things.
Matthew 21:28	But what thinke ye? A certaine man had two sonnes, and came to the elder, and saide, Sonne, goe and worke to day in my vineyarde.
Matthew 21:29	But he answered, and said, I will not: yet afterward he repented himselfe, and went.
Matthew 21:30	Then came he to the second, and said likewise. And he answered, and said, I will, Syr: yet he went not.
Matthew 21:31	Whether of them twaine did the will of the father? They saide vnto him, The first. Iesus saide vnto them, Verely I say vnto you, that the Publicanes and the harlots goe before you into the kingdome of God.
Matthew 21:32	For Iohn came vnto you in the way of righteousnes, and yee beleeued him not: but the Publicanes, and the harlots beleeued him, and ye, though ye sawe it, were not mooued with repentance afterward, that ye might beleeue him.
Matthew 21:33	Heare another parable, There was a certaine housholder, which planted a vineyard, and hedged it round about, and made a winepresse therein, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into a strange countrey.
Matthew 21:34	And when the time of the fruite drewe neere, hee sent his seruants to the husbandmen to receiue the fruites thereof.
Matthew 21:35	And ye husbandmen tooke his seruants and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another.
Matthew 21:36	Againe hee sent other seruants, moe then the first: and they did the like vnto them.
Matthew 21:37	But last of all he sent vnto them his owne sonne, saying, They will reuerence my sonne.
Matthew 21:38	But when the husbandmen saw the sonne, they saide among themselues, This is the heire: come, let vs kill him, and let vs take his inheritance.
Matthew 21:39	So they tooke him, and cast him out of the vineyarde, and slewe him.
Matthew 21:40	When therefore the Lord of the vineyarde shall come, what will hee doe to those husbandmen?
Matthew 21:41	They saide vnto him, Hee will cruelly destroy those wicked men, and will let out his vineyard vnto other husbandmen, which shall deliuer him the fruites in their seasons.
Matthew 21:42	Iesus saide vnto them, Read ye neuer in the Scriptures, The stone which the builders refused, the same is made the head of the corner? This was the Lordes doing, and it is marueilous in our eyes.
Matthew 21:43	Therefore say I vnto you, The kingdome of God shalbe taken from you, and shalbe giuen to a nation, which shall bring foorth the fruites thereof.
Matthew 21:44	And whosoeuer shall fall on this stone, he shalbe broken: but on whomsoeuer it shall fall, it will dash him a pieces.
Matthew 21:45	And when the chiefe Priestes and Pharises had heard his parables, they perceiued that hee spake of them.
Matthew 21:46	And they seeking to laye handes on him, feared the people, because they tooke him as a Prophet.
Matthew 22:1	Then Iesus answered, and spake vnto them againe in parables, saying,
Matthew 22:2	The kingdome of heauen is like vnto a certaine King which maried his sonne,
Matthew 22:3	And sent foorth his seruants, to call them that were bidde to the wedding, but they woulde not come.
Matthew 22:4	Againe hee sent foorth other seruants, saying. Tell them which are bidden, Beholde, I haue prepared my dinner: mine oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all thinges are readie: come vnto the mariage.
Matthew 22:5	But they made light of it, and went their wayes, one to his farme, and another about his marchandise.
Matthew 22:6	And the remnant tooke his seruants, and intreated them sharpely, and slewe them.
Matthew 22:7	But when the King heard it, he was wroth, and sent foorth his warriers, and destroyed those murtherers, and burnt vp their citie.
Matthew 22:8	Then saide hee to his seruants, Truely the wedding is prepared: but they which were bidden, were not worthy.
Matthew 22:9	Go ye therefore out into the high wayes, and as many as ye finde, bid them to the mariage.
Matthew 22:10	So those seruantes went out into the hie wayes, and gathered together all that euer they found, both good and bad: so the wedding was furnished with ghestes.
Matthew 22:11	Then the King came in, to see the ghestes, and sawe there a man which had not on a wedding garment.
Matthew 22:12	And he sayd vnto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither, and hast not on a wedding garment? And he was speachlesse.
Matthew 22:13	Then sayd the King to the seruants, Binde him hand and foote: take him away, and cast him into vtter darkenes: there shalbe weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 22:14	For many are called, but fewe chosen.
Matthew 22:15	Then went the Pharises and tooke counsell how they might tangle him in talke.
Matthew 22:16	And they sent vnto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we knowe that thou art true, and teachest the way of God truely, neither carest for any man: for thou considerest not the person of men.
Matthew 22:17	Tell vs therefore, how thinkest thou? Is it lawfull to giue tribute vnto Cesar, or not?
Matthew 22:18	But Iesus perceiued their wickednes, and sayd, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites?
Matthew 22:19	Shewe me the tribute money. And they brought him a peny.
Matthew 22:20	And he sayde vnto them, Whose is this image and superscription?
Matthew 22:21	They sayd vnto him, Cesars. Then sayd he vnto them, Giue therefore to Cesar, the things which are Cesars, and giue vnto God, those things which are Gods.
Matthew 22:22	And when they heard it, they marueiled, and left him, and went their way.
Matthew 22:23	The same day the Sadduces came to him (which say that there is no resurrection) and asked him,
Matthew 22:24	Saying, Master, Moses sayd, If a man die, hauing no children, his brother shall marie his wife by the right of alliance, and raise vp seede vnto his brother.
Matthew 22:25	Nowe there were with vs seuen brethren, and the first maried a wife, and deceased: and hauing none yssue, left his wife vnto his brother.
Matthew 22:26	Likewise also the second, and the third, vnto the seuenth.
Matthew 22:27	And last of all the woman died also.
Matthew 22:28	Therefore in the resurrection, whose wife shall she be of the seuen? for all had her.
Matthew 22:29	Then Iesus answered, and sayd vnto them, Ye are deceiued, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God.
Matthew 22:30	For in the resurrection they neither marie wiues, nor wiues are bestowed in mariage, but are as the Angels of God in heauen.
Matthew 22:31	And concerning the resurrection of the dead, haue ye not read what is spoken vuto you of God, saying,
Matthew 22:32	I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Iacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the liuing.
Matthew 22:33	And when the multitude heard it, they were astonied at his doctrine.
Matthew 22:34	But when the Pharises had heard, that he had put the Sadduces to silence, they assembled together.
Matthew 22:35	And one of them, which was an expounder of the Lawe, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying,
Matthew 22:36	Master, which is ye great commandement in the Lawe?
Matthew 22:37	Iesus sayd to him, Thou shalt loue the Lord thy God with all thine heart, with all thy soule, and with all thy minde.
Matthew 22:38	This is the first and the great commandement.
Matthew 22:39	And the second is like vnto this, Thou shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe.
Matthew 22:40	On these two commandements hangeth the whole Lawe, and the Prophets.
Matthew 22:41	While the Pharises were gathered together, Iesus asked them,
Matthew 22:42	Saying, What thinke ye of Christ? whose sonne is he? They sayd vnto him, Dauids.
Matthew 22:43	He sayd vnto them, How then doeth Dauid in spirit call him Lord, saying,
Matthew 22:44	The Lord sayd to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footestoole?
Matthew 22:45	If then Dauid call him Lord, howe is he his sonne?
Matthew 22:46	And none could answere him a worde, neither durst any from that day foorth aske him any moe questions.
Matthew 23:1	Then spake Iesus to the multitude, and to his disciples,
Matthew 23:2	Saying, The Scribes and the Pharises sit in Moses seate.
Matthew 23:3	All therefore whatsoeuer they bid you obserue, that obserue and doe: but after their workes doe not: for they say, and doe not.
Matthew 23:4	For they binde heauie burdens, and grieuous to be borne, and lay them on mens shoulders, but they themselues will not moue them with one of their fingers.
Matthew 23:5	All their workes they doe for to be seene of men: for they make their phylacteries broad, and make long the frindges of their garments,
Matthew 23:6	And loue the chiefe place at feastes, and to haue the chiefe seates in the assemblies,
Matthew 23:7	And greetings in the markets, and to be called of men, Rabbi, Rabbi.
Matthew 23:8	But be not ye called, Rabbi: for one is your doctour, to wit, Christ, and all ye are brethren.
Matthew 23:9	And call no man your father vpon the earth: for there is but one, your father which is in heauen.
Matthew 23:10	Be not called doctours: for one is your doctour, euen Christ.
Matthew 23:11	But he that is greatest among you, let him be your seruant.
Matthew 23:12	For whosoeuer will exalt himselfe, shall be brought lowe: and whosoeuer will humble himselfe, shalbe exalted.
Matthew 23:13	Wo therefore be vnto you, Scribes and Pharises, hypocrites, because ye shut vp the kingdome of heauen before men: for ye your selues go not in, neither suffer ye them that would enter, to come in.
Matthew 23:14	Wo be vnto you, Scribes and Pharises, hypocrites: for ye deuoure widowes houses, euen vnder a colour of long prayers: wherefore ye shall receiue the greater damnation.
Matthew 23:15	Wo be vnto you, Scribes and Pharises, hypocrites: for ye compasse sea and land to make one of your profession: and when he is made, ye make him two folde more the childe of hell, then you your selues.
Matthew 23:16	Wo be vnto you blinde guides, which say, Whosoeuer sweareth by the Temple, it is nothing: but whosoeuer sweareth by the golde of the Temple, he offendeth.
Matthew 23:17	Ye fooles and blinde, whether is greater, the golde, or the Temple that sanctifieth the golde?
Matthew 23:18	And whosoeuer sweareth by the altar, it is nothing: but whosoeuer sweareth by the offering that is vpon it, offendeth.
Matthew 23:19	Ye fooles and blinde, whether is greater, the offering, or the altar which sanctifieth the offering?
Matthew 23:20	Whosoeuer therefore sweareth by the altar, sweareth by it, and by all things thereon.
Matthew 23:21	And whosoeuer sweareth by the Temple, sweareth by it, and by him that dwelleth therein.
Matthew 23:22	And he that sweareth by heauen, sweareth by the throne of God, and by him that sitteth thereon.
Matthew 23:23	Wo be to you, Scribes and Pharises, hypocrites: for ye tithe mynt, and annyse, and cummyn, and leaue the weightier matters of the law, as iudgement, and mercy and fidelitie. These ought ye to haue done, and not to haue left the other.
Matthew 23:24	Ye blinde guides, which straine out a gnat, and swallowe a camell.
Matthew 23:25	Wo be to you, Scribes and Pharises, hypocrites: for ye make cleane the vtter side of the cup, and of the platter: but within they are ful of briberie and excesse.
Matthew 23:26	Thou blinde Pharise, cleanse first the inside of the cup and platter, that the outside of them may be cleane also.
Matthew 23:27	Wo be to you, Scribes and Pharises, hypocrites: for ye are like vnto whited tombes, which appeare beautifull outward, but are within full of dead mens bones, and all filthines.
Matthew 23:28	So are ye also: for outwarde ye appeare righteous vnto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisie and iniquitie.
Matthew 23:29	Wo be vnto you, Scribes and Pharises, hypocrites: for ye build the tombes of the Prophets, and garnish the sepulchres of the righteous,
Matthew 23:30	And say, If we had bene in the dayes of our fathers, we would not haue bene partners with them in the blood of the Prophets.
Matthew 23:31	So then ye be witnesses vnto your selues, that ye are the children of them that murthered the Prophets.
Matthew 23:32	Fulfill ye also ye measure of your fathers.
Matthew 23:33	O serpents, the generation of vipers, howe should ye escape the damnation of hell!
Matthew 23:34	Wherefore beholde, I send vnto you Prophets, and wise men, and Scribes, and of them ye shall kill and crucifie: and of them shall ye scourge in your Synagogues, and persecute from citie to citie,
Matthew 23:35	That vpon you may come all the righteous blood that was shed vpon the earth, from the blood of Abel the righteous, vnto the blood of Zacharias the sonne of Barachias, whome ye slewe betweene the Temple and the altar.
Matthew 23:36	Verely I say vnto you, all these things shall come vpon this generation.
Matthew 23:37	Hierusalem, Hierusalem, which killest the Prophets, and stonest them which are sent to thee, how often would I haue gathered thy children together, as the henne gathereth her chickins vnder her wings, and ye would not!
Matthew 23:38	Beholde, your habitation shalbe left vnto you desolate,
Matthew 23:39	For I say vnto you, ye shall not see mee henceforth till that ye say, Blessed is he that commeth in the Name of the Lord.
Matthew 24:1	And Iesus went out, and departed from the Temple, and his disciples came to him, to shewe him the building of the Temple.
Matthew 24:2	And Iesus sayd vnto them, See ye not all these things? Verely I say vnto you, there shall not be here left a stone vpon a stone, that shall not be cast downe.
Matthew 24:3	And as he sate vpon the mount of Oliues, his disciples came vnto him apart, saying, Tell vs when these things shall be, and what signe shalbe of thy comming, and of the ende of the world.
Matthew 24:4	And Iesus answered, and sayd vnto them, Take heede that no man deceiue you.
Matthew 24:5	For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceiue many.
Matthew 24:6	And ye shall heare of warres, and rumours of warres: see that ye be not troubled: for all these things must come to passe, but the end is not yet.
Matthew 24:7	For nation shall rise against nation, and realme against realme, and there shalbe famine, and pestilence, and earthquakes in diuers places.
Matthew 24:8	All these are but ye beginning of sorowes.
Matthew 24:9	Then shall they deliuer you vp to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations for my Names sake.
Matthew 24:10	And then shall many be offended, and shall betray one another, and shall hate one another.
Matthew 24:11	And many false prophets shall arise, and shall deceiue many.
Matthew 24:12	And because iniquitie shalbe increased, the loue of many shalbe colde.
Matthew 24:13	But he that endureth to the ende, he shalbe saued.
Matthew 24:14	And this Gospel of the kingdome shalbe preached through the whole world for a witnes vnto all nations, and then shall the end come.
Matthew 24:15	When ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation spoken of by Daniel the Prophet, set in the holy place (let him that readeth consider it.)
Matthew 24:16	Then let them which be in Iudea, flee into the mountaines.
Matthew 24:17	Let him which is on the house top, not come downe to fetch any thing out of his house.
Matthew 24:18	And he that is in the fielde, let not him returne backe to fetch his clothes.
Matthew 24:19	And woe shalbe to them that are with childe, and to them that giue sucke in those dayes.
Matthew 24:20	But pray that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day.
Matthew 24:21	For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not from the beginning of the worlde to this time, nor shalbe.
Matthew 24:22	And except those dayes should be shortened, there should no flesh be saued: but for the elects sake those dayes shalbe shortened.
Matthew 24:23	Then if any shall say vnto you, Loe, here is Christ, or there, beleeue it not.
Matthew 24:24	For there shall arise false Christes, and false prophets, and shall shewe great signes and wonders, so that if it were possible, they should deceiue the very elect.
Matthew 24:25	Beholde, I haue tolde you before.
Matthew 24:26	Wherefore if they shall say vnto you, Beholde, he is in the desert, goe not forth: Beholde, he is in the secret places, beleeue it not.
Matthew 24:27	For as the lightning commeth out of the East, and is seene into the West, so shall also the comming of the Sonne of man be.
Matthew 24:28	For wheresoeuer a dead carkeis is, thither will the Egles be gathered together.
Matthew 24:29	And immediatly after ye tribulations of those dayes, shall the sunne be darkened, and the moone shall not giue her light, and the starres shall fal from heauen, and ye powers of heaue shalbe shake.
Matthew 24:30	And then shall appeare the signe of the Sonne of man in heauen: and then shall all the kinreds of the earth mourne, and they shall see the Sonne of man come in the cloudes of heauen with power and great glorie.
Matthew 24:31	And he shall send his Angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect, from the foure windes, and from the one ende of the heauens vnto the other.
Matthew 24:32	Now learne the parable of the figge tree: when her bough is yet tender, and it putteth foorth leaues, ye knowe that sommer is neere.
Matthew 24:33	So likewise ye, when ye see all these things, know that the kingdom of God is neere, eue at ye doores.
Matthew 24:34	Verely I say vnto you, this generation shall not passe, till all these things be done.
Matthew 24:35	Heauen and earth shall passe away: but my wordes shall not passe away.
Matthew 24:36	But of that day and houre knoweth no man, no not the Angels of heauen, but my father only.
Matthew 24:37	But as the dayes of Noe were, so likewise shall the comming of the Sonne of man be.
Matthew 24:38	For as in the dayes before the flood, they did eate and drinke, marrie, and giue in mariage, vnto the day that Noe entred into the Arke,
Matthew 24:39	And knewe nothing, till the flood came, and tooke them all away, so shall also the comming of the Sonne of man be.
Matthew 24:40	Then two shall be in the fieldes, the one shalbe receiued, and the other shalbe refused.
Matthew 24:41	Two women shalbe grinding at ye mill: the one shalbe receiued, and the other shalbe refused.
Matthew 24:42	Watch therefore: for ye knowe not what houre your master will come.
Matthew 24:43	Of this be sure, that if the good man of the house knewe at what watch the thiefe would come, he woulde surely watch, and not suffer his house to be digged through.
Matthew 24:44	Therefore be ye also ready: for in the houre that ye thinke not, will the Sonne of man come.
Matthew 24:45	Who then is a faithfull seruaunt and wise, whom his master hath made ruler ouer his household, to giue them meate in season?
Matthew 24:46	Blessed is that seruant, whom his master when he commeth, shall finde so doing.
Matthew 24:47	Verely I say vnto you, he shall make him ruler ouer all his goods.
Matthew 24:48	But if that euil seruant shall say in his heart, My master doth deferre his comming,
Matthew 24:49	And begin to smite his fellowes, and to eate, and to drinke with the drunken,
Matthew 24:50	That seruaunts master will come in a day, when he looketh not for him, and in an houre that he is not ware of,
Matthew 24:51	And will cut him off, and giue him his portion with hypocrites: there shalbe weeping, and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 25:1	Then the kingdome of heauen shalbe likened vnto tenne virgins, which tooke their lampes, and went foorth to meete the bridegrome.
Matthew 25:2	And fiue of them were wise, and fiue foolish.
Matthew 25:3	The foolish tooke their lampes, but tooke none oyle with them.
Matthew 25:4	But the wise tooke oyle in their vessels with their lampes.
Matthew 25:5	Nowe while the bridegrome taried long, all slumbred and slept.
Matthew 25:6	And at midnight there was a crie made, Behold, the bridegrome commeth: goe out to meete him.
Matthew 25:7	Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lampes.
Matthew 25:8	And the foolish said to the wise, Giue vs of your oyle, for our lampes are out.
Matthew 25:9	But the wise answered, saying, Not so, lest there will not be ynough for vs and you: but goe ye rather to them that sell, and bye for your selues.
Matthew 25:10	And while they went to bye, the bridegrome came: and they that were readie, went in with him to the wedding, and the gate was shut.
Matthew 25:11	Afterwards came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to vs.
Matthew 25:12	But he answered, and said, Verely I say vnto you, I knowe you not.
Matthew 25:13	Watch therfore: for ye know neither the day, nor the houre, when the sonne of man will come.
Matthew 25:14	For the kingdome of heauen is as a man that going into a strange countrey, called his seruants, and deliuered to them his goods.
Matthew 25:15	And vnto one he gaue fiue talents, and to an other two, and to another one, to euery man after his own ability, and straightway went from home.
Matthew 25:16	Then he that had receiued the fiue talents, went and occupied with them, and gained other fiue talents.
Matthew 25:17	Likewise also, he that receiued two, he also gained other two.
Matthew 25:18	But he that receiued that one, went and digged it in the earth, and hid his masters money.
Matthew 25:19	But after a long season, the master of those seruants came, and reckoned with them.
Matthew 25:20	Then came he that had receiued fiue talents, and brought other fiue talents, saying, Master, thou deliueredst vnto me fiue talents: behold, I haue gained with them other fiue talents.
Matthew 25:21	Then his master saide vnto him, It is well done good seruant and faithfull, Thou hast bene faithfull in litle, I will make thee ruler ouer much: enter into thy masters ioy.
Matthew 25:22	Also he that had receiued two talents, came, and said, Master, thou deliueredst vnto me two talents: behold, I haue gained two other talets more.
Matthew 25:23	His master saide vnto him, It is well done good seruant, and faithfull, Thou hast bene faithfull in litle, I will make thee ruler ouer much: enter into thy masters ioy.
Matthew 25:24	Then he which had receiued the one talent, came, and said, Master, I knewe that thou wast an hard man, which reapest where thou sowedst not, and gatherest where thou strawedst not:
Matthew 25:25	I was therefore afraide, and went, and hid thy talent in the earth: behold, thou hast thine owne.
Matthew 25:26	And his master answered, and said vnto him, Thou euill seruant, and slouthfull, thou knewest that I reape where I sowed not, and gather where I strawed not.
Matthew 25:27	Thou oughtest therefore to haue put my money to ye exchangers, and then at my comming should I haue receiued mine owne with vantage.
Matthew 25:28	Take therefore the talent from him, and giue it vnto him which hath tenne talents.
Matthew 25:29	For vnto euery man that hath, it shall be giuen, and he shall haue abundance, and from him that hath not, euen that he hath, shalbe taken away.
Matthew 25:30	Cast therefore that vnprofitable seruant into vtter darkenes: there shalbe weeping and gnasshing of teeth.
Matthew 25:31	And when the Sonne of man commeth in his glory, and all the holy Angels with him, then shall he sit vpon the throne of his glorie,
Matthew 25:32	And before him shalbe gathered all nations, and he shall seperate them one from another, as a shepheard separateth the sheepe from ye goates.
Matthew 25:33	And he shall set the sheepe on his right hand, and the goates on the left.
Matthew 25:34	Then shall ye king say to them on his right hand, Come ye blessed of my father: take the inheritance of the kingdome prepared for you from the foundation of the world.
Matthew 25:35	For I was an hungred, and ye gaue me meate: I thirsted, and ye gaue me drinke: I was a stranger, and ye tooke me in vnto you.
Matthew 25:36	I was naked, and ye clothed me: I was sicke, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came vnto me.
Matthew 25:37	Then shall the righteous answere him, saying, Lord, when sawe we thee an hungred, and fed thee? or a thirst, and gaue thee drinke?
Matthew 25:38	And when sawe we thee a stranger, and tooke thee in vnto vs? or naked, and clothed thee?
Matthew 25:39	Or when sawe we thee sicke, or in prison, and came vnto thee?
Matthew 25:40	And the King shall answere, and say vnto them, Verely I say vnto you, in as much as ye haue done it vnto one of the least of these my brethre, ye haue done it to me.
Matthew 25:41	Then shall he say vnto them on ye left hand, Depart from me ye cursed, into euerlasting fire, which is prepared for the deuill and his angels.
Matthew 25:42	For I was an hungred, and ye gaue me no meate: I thirsted, and ye gaue me no drinke:
Matthew 25:43	I was a stranger, and ye tooke me not in vnto you: I was naked, and ye clothed me not: sicke, and in prison, and ye visited me not.
Matthew 25:44	Then shall they also answere him, saying, Lord, when sawe we thee an hungred, or a thirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sicke, or in prison, and did not minister vnto thee?
Matthew 25:45	Then shall he answere them, and say, Verely I say vnto you, in as much as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me.
Matthew 25:46	And these shall goe into euerlasting paine, and the righteous into life eternall.
Matthew 26:1	And it came to passe, when Iesus had finished all these sayings, he saide vnto his disciples,
Matthew 26:2	Ye know that after two dayes is ye Passeouer, and the Sonne of man shalbe deliuered to be crucified.
Matthew 26:3	Then assembled together the chiefe Priests, and the Scribes, and the Elders of ye people into the hall of the high Priest called Caiaphas:
Matthew 26:4	And consulted together that they might take Iesus by subtiltie, and kill him.
Matthew 26:5	But they sayd, Not on the feast day, least any vprore be among the people.
Matthew 26:6	And when Iesus was in Bethania, in the house of Simon the leper,
Matthew 26:7	There came vnto him a woman, which had a boxe of very costly oyntment, and powred it on his head, as he sate at the table.
Matthew 26:8	And when his disciples sawe it, they had indignation, saying, What needed this waste?
Matthew 26:9	For this oyntment might haue bene solde for much, and bene giuen to the poore.
Matthew 26:10	And Iesus knowing it, sayde vnto them, Why trouble yee the woman? for shee hath wrought a good woorke vpon me.
Matthew 26:11	For yee haue the poore alwayes with you, but me shall yee not haue alwaies.
Matthew 26:12	For in that shee powred this oyntment on my bodie, shee did it to burie me.
Matthew 26:13	Verely I say vnto you, wheresoeuer this Gospel shall bee preached throughout all the worlde, there shall also this that shee hath done, be spoken of for a memoriall of her.
Matthew 26:14	Then one of the twelue, called Iudas Iscariot, went vnto the chiefe Priestes,
Matthew 26:15	And said, What will ye giue me, and I will deliuer him vnto you? and they appoynted vnto him thirtie pieces of siluer.
Matthew 26:16	And from that time, he sought opportunitie to betraie him.
Matthew 26:17	Nowe on the first day of the feast of vnleauened bread the disciples came to Iesus, saying vnto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eate the Passeouer?
Matthew 26:18	And he said, Goe yee into the citie to such a man, and say to him, The master saieth, My time is at hande: I will keepe the Passeouer at thine house with my disciples.
Matthew 26:19	And the disciples did as Iesus had giuen them charge, and made readie the Passeouer.
Matthew 26:20	So when the Euen was come, hee sate downe with the twelue.
Matthew 26:21	And as they did eate, he sayde, Verely I say vnto you, that one of you shall betraie me.
Matthew 26:22	And they were exceeding sorowfull, and began euery one of them to say vnto him, Is it I, Master?
Matthew 26:23	And hee answered and sayde, Hee that dippeth his hande with me in the dish, hee shall betraie me.
Matthew 26:24	Surely the Sonne of man goeth his way, as it is written of him: but woe be to that man, by whom the Sonne of man is betrayed: it had bene good for that man, if hee had neuer bene borne.
Matthew 26:25	Then Iudas which betraied him, answered and sayde, Is it I, Master? He sayde vnto him, Thou hast sayd it.
Matthew 26:26	And as they did eate, Iesus tooke the bread, and when he had blessed, he brake it, and gaue it to the disciples, and sayd, Take, eate: this is my bodie.
Matthew 26:27	Also he tooke the cuppe, and when he had giuen thankes, he gaue it them, saying, Drinke ye all of it.
Matthew 26:28	For this is my blood of the Newe Testament, that is shedde for many, for the remission of sinnes.
Matthew 26:29	I say vnto you, that I will not drinke henceforth of this fruit of the vine vntil that day, when I shall drinke it new with you in my Fathers kingdome.
Matthew 26:30	And when they had sung a Psalme, they went out into the mount of Oliues.
Matthew 26:31	Then saide Iesus vnto them, All yee shall be offended by me this night: for it is written, I wil smite the shepheard, and the sheepe of the flocke shalbe scattered.
Matthew 26:32	But after I am risen againe, I will go before you into Galile.
Matthew 26:33	But Peter aunswered, and sayde vnto him, Though that al men should be offended by thee, yet will I neuer be offended.
Matthew 26:34	Iesus sayde vnto him, Verely I say vnto thee, that this night, before the cocke crow, thou shalt denie me thrise.
Matthew 26:35	Peter saide vnto him, Though I should die with thee, I will in no case denie thee. Likewise also sayd all the disciples.
Matthew 26:36	Then went Iesus with them into a place which is called Gethsemane, and said vnto his disciples, Sit ye here, while I goe, and pray yonder.
Matthew 26:37	And hee tooke vnto him Peter, and the two sonnes of Zebedeus, and began to waxe sorowfull, and grieuously troubled.
Matthew 26:38	Then sayde Iesus vnto them, My soule is very heauie, euen vnto the death: tarie yee here, and watch with me.
Matthew 26:39	So hee went a litle further, and fell on his face, and praied, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup passe from me: neuerthelesse, not as I will, but as thou wilt.
Matthew 26:40	After, hee came vnto the disciples, and founde them a sleepe, and sayde to Peter, What? coulde yee not watch with me one houre?
Matthew 26:41	Watch, and praie, that yee enter not into tentation: the spirit in deede is readie, but the flesh is weake.
Matthew 26:42	Againe he went away the second time, and praied, saying, O my Father, if this cuppe can not passe away from mee, but that I must drinke it, thy will be done.
Matthew 26:43	And he came, and founde them a sleepe againe, for their eyes were heauie.
Matthew 26:44	So he left them and went away againe, and praied the third time, saying the same woordes.
Matthew 26:45	Then came he to his disciples, and said vnto them, Sleepe henceforth, and take your rest: behold, the houre is at hand, and the Sonne of man is giuen into the hands of sinners.
Matthew 26:46	Rise, let vs goe: beholde, hee is at hande that betraieth me.
Matthew 26:47	And while hee yet spake, loe Iudas, one of the twelue, came, and with him a great multitude with swordes and staues, from the high Priests and Elders of the people.
Matthew 26:48	Now he that betraied him, had giuen them a token, saying, Whomesoeuer I shall kisse, that is he, laie holde on him.
Matthew 26:49	And forthwith he came to Iesus, and sayd, God saue thee, Master, and kissed him.
Matthew 26:50	Then Iesus sayde vnto him, Friende, wherefore art thou come? Then came they, and laide hands on Iesus, and tooke him.
Matthew 26:51	And behold, one of them which were with Iesus, stretched out his hand, and drewe his sworde, and strooke a seruaunt of the high Priest, and smote off his eare.
Matthew 26:52	Then sayde Iesus vnto him, Put vp thy sworde into his place: for all that take the sworde, shall perish with the sworde.
Matthew 26:53	Either thinkest thou, that I can not now pray to my Father, and he will giue me moe then twelue legions of Angels?
Matthew 26:54	Howe then shoulde the Scriptures bee fulfilled, which say, that it must be so?
Matthew 26:55	The same houre sayde Iesus to the multitude, Ye be come out as it were against a thiefe, with swordes and staues to take mee: I sate daily teaching in the Temple among you, and yee tooke me not.
Matthew 26:56	But all this was done, that the Scriptures of the Prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples forsooke him, and fled.
Matthew 26:57	And they tooke Iesus, and led him to Caiaphas the hie Priest, where the Scribes and the Elders were assembled.
Matthew 26:58	And Peter followed him a farre off vnto the hie Priestes hall, and went in, and sate with the seruants to see the ende.
Matthew 26:59	Nowe the chiefe Priestes and the Elders, and all the whole councill sought false witnesse against Iesus, to put him to death.
Matthew 26:60	But they founde none, and though many false witnesses came, yet founde they none: but at the last came two false witnesses,
Matthew 26:61	And saide, This man saide, I can destroie the Temple of God, and build it in three daies.
Matthew 26:62	Then the chiefe Priest arose, and sayde to him, Answerest thou nothing? What is the matter that these men witnesse against thee?
Matthew 26:63	But Iesus helde his peace. Then the chiefe Priest answered, and saide to him, I charge thee sweare vnto vs by the liuing God, to tell vs, If thou be that Christ the Sonne of God, or no.
Matthew 26:64	Iesus saide to him, Thou hast saide it: neuerthelesse I say vnto you, hereafter shall ye see the Sonne of man, sitting at the right hande of the power of God, and come in the cloudes of the heauen.
Matthew 26:65	Then the hie Priest rent his clothes, saying, Hee hath blasphemed, what haue wee any more neede of witnesses? beholde: nowe yee haue heard his blasphemie.
Matthew 26:66	What thinke yee? They answered, and said, He is guiltie of death.
Matthew 26:67	Then spet they in his face, and buffeted him, and other smote him with roddes,
Matthew 26:68	Saying, Prophecie to vs, O Christ, Who is he that smote thee?
Matthew 26:69	Peter sate without in the hall, and a maide came to him, saying, Thou also wast with Iesus of Galile:
Matthew 26:70	But hee denied before them all, saying, I wote not what thou saiest.
Matthew 26:71	And when hee went out into the porche, another maide sawe him, and sayde vnto them that were there, This man was also with Iesus of Nazareth.
Matthew 26:72	And againe he denied with an othe, saying, I knowe not the man.
Matthew 26:73	So after a while, came vnto him they that stoode by, and sayde vnto Peter, Surely thou art also one of them: for euen thy speache bewraieth thee.
Matthew 26:74	Then began hee to curse himselfe, and to sweare, saying, I knowe not the man. And immediately the cocke crewe.
Matthew 26:75	Then Peter remembred the wordes of Iesus, which had sayde vnto him, Before the cocke crowe thou shalt denie me thrise. So he went out, and wept bitterly.
Matthew 27:1	When the morning was come, all the chiefe Priests, and the elders of the people tooke counsell against Iesus, to put him to death,
Matthew 27:2	And led him away bounde, and deliuered him vnto Pontius Pilate the gouernour.
Matthew 27:3	Then when Iudas which betraied him, sawe that hee was condemned, hee repented himselfe, and brought againe the thirtie pieces of siluer to the chiefe Priestes, and Elders,
Matthew 27:4	Saying, I haue sinned, betraying the innocent bloud. But they sayde, What is that to vs? see thou to it.
Matthew 27:5	And when hee had cast downe the siluer pieces in the Temple, hee departed, and went, and hanged himselfe.
Matthew 27:6	And the chiefe Priestes tooke the siluer pieces, and sayde, It is not lawfull for vs to put them into the treasure, because it is the price of bloud.
Matthew 27:7	And they tooke counsell, and bought with them a potters fielde, for the buriall of strangers.
Matthew 27:8	Wherefore that field is called, The field of bloud, vntill this day.
Matthew 27:9	(Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Ieremias the Prophet, saying, And they tooke thirtie siluer pieces, ye price of him that was valued, whom they of ye children of Israel valued.
Matthew 27:10	And they gaue them for the potters fielde, as the Lord appointed me.)
Matthew 27:11	And Iesus stood before ye gouernour, and the gouernour asked him, saying, Art thou that King of the Iewes? Iesus said vnto him, Thou sayest it.
Matthew 27:12	And when he was accused of the chiefe Priestes, and Elders, he answered nothing.
Matthew 27:13	Then saide Pilate vnto him, Hearest thou not howe many things they lay against thee?
Matthew 27:14	But he answered him not to one worde, in so much that the gouernour marueiled greatly.
Matthew 27:15	Nowe at the feast, the gouernour was wont to deliuer vnto the people a prisoner whom they would.
Matthew 27:16	And they had then a notable prisoner, called Barabbas.
Matthew 27:17	When they were then gathered together, Pilate said vnto the, Whether will ye that I let loose vnto you Barabbas, or Iesus which is called Christ?
Matthew 27:18	(For he knewe well, that for enuie they had deliuered him.
Matthew 27:19	Also when he was set downe vpon the iudgement seate, his wife sent to him, saying, Haue thou nothing to do with that iust man: for I haue suffered many things this day in a dreame by reason of him.)
Matthew 27:20	But the chiefe Priestes and the Elders had persuaded the people that they shoulde aske Barabbas, and should destroy Iesus.
Matthew 27:21	Then the gouernour answered, and said vnto them, Whether of the twaine will ye that I let loose vnto you? And they said, Barabbas.
Matthew 27:22	Pilate said vnto them, What shall I do then with Iesus, which is called Christ? They all said to him, Let him be crucified.
Matthew 27:23	Then saide the gouernour, But what euill hath he done? Then they cryed the more, saying, Let him be crucified.
Matthew 27:24	When Pilate saw that he auailed nothing, but that more tumult was made, he tooke water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this iust man: looke you to it.
Matthew 27:25	Then answered all the people, and saide, His bloud be on vs, and on our children.
Matthew 27:26	Thus let he Barabbas loose vnto them, and scourged Iesus, and deliuered him to be crucified.
Matthew 27:27	Then the souldiers of the gouernour tooke Iesus into the common hall, and gathered about him the whole band,
Matthew 27:28	And they stripped him, and put about him a skarlet robe,
Matthew 27:29	And platted a crowne of thornes, and put it vpon his head, and a reede in his right hand, and bowed their knees before him, and mocked him, saying, God saue thee King of the Iewes,
Matthew 27:30	And spitted vpon him, and tooke a reede, and smote him on the head.
Matthew 27:31	Thus when they had mocked him, they tooke the robe from him, and put his owne rayment on him, and led him away to crucifie him.
Matthew 27:32	And as they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, named Simon: him they compelled to beare his crosse.
Matthew 27:33	And when they came vnto the place called Golgotha, (that is to say, the place of dead mens skulles)
Matthew 27:34	They gaue him vineger to drinke, mingled with gall: and when he had tasted thereof, he would not drinke.
Matthew 27:35	And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments, and did cast lottes, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the Prophet, They deuided my garments among them, and vpon my vesture did cast lottes.
Matthew 27:36	And they sate, and watched him there.
Matthew 27:37	They set vp also ouer his head his cause written, THIS IS IESVS THE KING OF THE IEVVES.
Matthew 27:38	And there were two theeues crucified with him, one on the right hand, and another on the left.
Matthew 27:39	And they that passed by, reuiled him, wagging their heades,
Matthew 27:40	And saying, Thou that destroyest ye Temple, and buildest it in three dayes, saue thy selfe: if thou be ye Sonne of God, come downe from ye crosse.
Matthew 27:41	Likewise also the hie Priests mocking him, with the Scribes, and Elders, and Pharises, said,
Matthew 27:42	He saued others, but he cannot saue him selfe: if he be ye King of Israel, let him now come downe from ye crosse, and we will beleeue in him.
Matthew 27:43	He trusted in God, let him deliuer him nowe, if he will haue him: for he saide, I am the Sonne of God.
Matthew 27:44	The selfe same thing also ye theeues which were crucified with him, cast in his teeth.
Matthew 27:45	Now from ye sixt houre was there darkenesse ouer all the land, vnto the ninth houre.
Matthew 27:46	And about ye ninth houre Iesus cryed with a loud voyce, saying, Eli, Eli, lamasabachthani? that is, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?
Matthew 27:47	And some of them that stoode there, when they heard it, said, This man calleth Elias.
Matthew 27:48	And straightway one of them ran, and tooke a spondge, and filled it with vineger, and put it on a reede, and gaue him to drinke.
Matthew 27:49	Other said, Let be: let vs see, if Elias wil come and saue him.
Matthew 27:50	Then Iesus cryed againe with a loude voyce, and yeelded vp the ghost.
Matthew 27:51	And behold, the vayle of the Temple was rent in twaine, from the top to the bottome, and the earth did quake, and the stones were cloue.
Matthew 27:52	And the graues did open themselues, and many bodies of the Saintes, which slept, arose,
Matthew 27:53	And came out of the graues after his resurrection, and went into the holy citie, and appeared vnto many.
Matthew 27:54	When the Centurion, and they that were with him watching Iesus, saw the earthquake, and the thinges that were done, they feared greatly, saying, Truely this was the Sonne of God.
Matthew 27:55	And many women were there, beholding him a farre off, which had folowed Iesus from Galile, ministring vnto him.
Matthew 27:56	Among whom was Marie Magdalene, and Marie the mother of Iames, and Ioses, and the mother of Zebedeus sonnes.
Matthew 27:57	And when the euen was come, there came a riche man of Arimathea, named Ioseph, who had also himselfe bene Iesus disciple.
Matthew 27:58	He went to Pilate, and asked ye body of Iesus. Then Pilate commanded ye body to be deliuered.
Matthew 27:59	So Ioseph tooke the body, and wrapped it in a cleane linnen cloth,
Matthew 27:60	And put it in his new tombe, which he had hewen out in a rocke, and rolled a great stone to the doore of the sepulchre, and departed.
Matthew 27:61	And there was Marie Magdalene, and the other Marie sitting ouer against the sepulchre.
Matthew 27:62	Nowe the next day that followed the Preparation of the Sabbath, the hie Priestes and Pharises assembled to Pilate,
Matthew 27:63	And said, Syr, we remember that that deceiuer saide, while he was yet aliue, Within three dayes I will rise.
Matthew 27:64	Command therefore, that the sepulchre be made sure vntill the third day, lest his disciples come by night, and steale him away, and say vnto the people, He is risen from the dead: so shall the last errour be worse then the first.
Matthew 27:65	Then Pilate saide vnto them, Ye haue a watch: goe, and make it sure as ye knowe.
Matthew 27:66	And they went, and made the sepulchre sure with the watch, and sealed the stone.
Matthew 28:1	Now in the end of the Sabbath, when the first day of ye weeke began to dawne, Marie Magdalene, and the other Marie came to see the sepulchre,
Matthew 28:2	And behold, there was a great earthquake: for the Angel of the Lord descended from heauen, and came and rolled backe the stone from the doore, and sate vpon it.
Matthew 28:3	And his countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snowe.
Matthew 28:4	And for feare of him, the keepers were astonied, and became as dead men.
Matthew 28:5	But the Angel answered, and said to the women, Feare ye not: for I know that ye seeke Iesus which was crucified:
Matthew 28:6	He is not here, for he is risen; as he saide: come, see the place where the Lord was laid,
Matthew 28:7	And go quickly, and tel his disciples that he is risen from ye dead: and behold, he goeth before you into Galile: there ye shall see him: loe, I haue told you.
Matthew 28:8	So they departed quickly from the sepulchre, with feare and great ioye, and did runne to bring his disciples worde.
Matthew 28:9	And as they wet to tel his disciples, behold, Iesus also met the, saying, God saue you. And they came, and tooke him by the feete, and worshipped him.
Matthew 28:10	Then said Iesus vnto them, Be not afraide. Goe, and tell my brethren, that they goe into Galile, and there shall they see me.
Matthew 28:11	Nowe when they were gone, beholde, some of the watch came into the citie, and shewed vnto the hie Priestes all ye things that were done.
Matthew 28:12	And they gathered them together with the Elders, and tooke counsell, and gaue large money vnto the souldiers,
Matthew 28:13	Saying, Say, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.
Matthew 28:14	And if this matter come before the gouernour to be heard, we will perswade him, and so vse the matter that you shall not neede to care.
Matthew 28:15	So they tooke the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is noysed among the Iewes vnto this day.
Matthew 28:16	Then ye eleuen disciples wet into Galile, into a mountaine, where Iesus had appointed the.
Matthew 28:17	And when they sawe him, they worshipped him: but some douted.
Matthew 28:18	And Iesus came, and spake vnto them, saying, All power is giuen vnto me, in heauen, and in earth.
Matthew 28:19	Go therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the Name of the Father, and the Sonne, and the holy Ghost,
Matthew 28:20	Teaching them to obserue all things, whatsoeuer I haue commanded you: and lo, I am with you alway, vntill the ende of the worlde, Amen.

===== BOOK: Micah =====
Micah 1:1	The word of the Lord, that came vnto Micah the Morashite in the dayes of Iotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah Kings of Iudah, which he sawe concerning Samaria, and Ierusalem.
Micah 1:2	Heare, al ye people: hearke thou, O earth, and all that therein is, and let the Lord God be witnes against you, euen ye Lord from his holy Teple.
Micah 1:3	For beholde, the Lord commeth out of his place, and will come downe, and tread vpon the hie places of the earth.
Micah 1:4	And the mountaines shall melt vnder him (so shall the valleys cleaue) as waxe before the fire, and as the waters that are powred downewarde.
Micah 1:5	For the wickednes of Iaakob is all this, and for the sinnes of the house of Israel: what is the wickednes of Iaakob? Is not Samaria? and which are the hie places of Iudah? Is not Ierusalem?
Micah 1:6	Therefore I wil make Samaria as an heape of the fielde, and for the planting of a vineyard, and I will cause the stones thereof to tumble downe into the valley, and I will discouer the foundations thereof.
Micah 1:7	And all the grauen images thereof shalbe broken, and all the giftes thereof shalbe burnt with the fire, and all the idoles thereof will I destroy: for she gathered it of the hire of an harlot, and they shall returne to the wages of an harlot.
Micah 1:8	Therefore I will mourne and howle: I wil goe without clothes, and naked: I will make lamentation like the dragons, and mourning as the ostriches.
Micah 1:9	For her plagues are grieuous: for it is come into Iudah: the enemie is come vnto the gate of my people, vnto Ierusalem.
Micah 1:10	Declare ye it not at Gath, neither weepe ye: for the house of Aphrah roule thy selfe in the dust.
Micah 1:11	Thou that dwellest at Shaphir, go together naked with shame: she that dwelleth at Zaanan, shall not come forth in ye mourning of Beth-ezel: the enemie shall receiue of you for his standing.
Micah 1:12	For the inhabitant of Maroth wayted for good, but euill came from the Lord vnto the gate of Ierusalem.
Micah 1:13	O thou inhabitant of Lachish, binde the charet to the beastes of price: she is the beginning of the sinne to the daughter of Zion: for the transgressions of Israel were found in thee.
Micah 1:14	Therefore shalt thou giue presents to Moresheth Gath: the houses of Achzib shalbe as a lye to the Kings of Israel.
Micah 1:15	Yet will I bring an heire vnto thee, O inhabitant of Mareshah, he shall come vnto Adullam, the glorie of Israel.
Micah 1:16	Make thee balde: and shaue thee for thy delicate children: enlarge thy baldenesse as the eagle, for they are gone into captiuity from thee.
Micah 2:1	Woe vnto them, that imagine iniquitie, and worke wickednesse vpon their beddes: when the morning is light they practise it because their hande hath power.
Micah 2:2	And they couet fields, and take them by violence, and houses, and take them away: so they oppresse a man and his house, euen man and his heritage.
Micah 2:3	Therefore thus saieth the Lord, Beholde, against this familie haue I deuised a plague, whereout yee shall not plucke your neckes, and ye shall not go so proudly, for this time is euill.
Micah 2:4	In that daye shall they take vp a parable against you, and lament with a dolefull lamentation, and say, We be vtterly wasted: hee hath changed the portion of my people: how hath he taken it away to restore it vnto mee? he hath deuided our fieldes.
Micah 2:5	Therefore thou shalt haue none that shall cast a corde by lot in the Congregation of the Lord.
Micah 2:6	They that prophecied, Prophecie ye not. They shall not prophecie to them, neither shall they take shame.
Micah 2:7	O thou that art named of the house of Iaakob, is the Spirite of the Lord shortened? are these his workes? are not my wordes good vnto him that walketh vprightly?
Micah 2:8	But hee that was yesterday my people, is risen vp on the other side, as against an enemie: they spoyle the beautifull garment from them that passe by peaceably, as though they returned from the warre.
Micah 2:9	The women of my people haue ye cast out from their pleasant houses, and from their childre haue ye taken away my glorie continually.
Micah 2:10	Arise and depart, for this is not your rest: because it is polluted, it shall destroy you, euen with a sore destruction.
Micah 2:11	If a man walke in the Spirit, and would lie falsely, saying, I wil prophecie vnto thee of wine, and of strong drinke, he shall euen be the prophet of this people.
Micah 2:12	I will surely gather thee wholy, O Iaakob: I will surely gather the remnant of Israel: I will put them together as the sheepe of Bozrah, euen as the flocke in the mids of their folde: the cities shall be full of brute of the men.
Micah 2:13	The breaker vp shall come vp before them: they shall breake out, and passe by the gate, and goe out by it, and their King shall goe before them, and the Lord shalbe vpon their heades.
Micah 3:1	And I sayd, Heare, I pray you, O heads of Iaakob, and yee princes of the house of Israel: should not ye knowe iudgement?
Micah 3:2	But they hate the good, and loue the euill: they plucke off their skinnes from them, and their flesh from their bones.
Micah 3:3	And they eate also the flesh of my people, and flay off their skinne from them, and they breake their bones, and chop them in pieces, as for the pot, and as flesh within the caldron.
Micah 3:4	Then shall they crye vnto the Lord, but he will not heare them: he wil euen hide his face from them at that time, because they haue done wickedly in their workes.
Micah 3:5	Thus saith the Lord, Concerning the prophets that deceiue my people, and bite them with their teeth, and cry peace, but if a man put not into their mouthes, they prepare warre against him,
Micah 3:6	Therefore night shalbe vnto you for a vision, and darkenesse shalbe vnto you for a diuination, and the sunne shall goe downe ouer the prophets, and the day shalbe darke ouer them.
Micah 3:7	Then shall the Seers bee ashamed, and the southsayers confounded: yea, they shall all couer their lippes, for they haue none answere of God.
Micah 3:8	Yet notwithstanding I am full of power by the Spirite of the Lord, and of iudgement, and of strength to declare vnto Iaakob his transgression, and to Israel his sinne.
Micah 3:9	Heare this, I pray you, ye heades of the house of Iaakob, and princes of the house of Israel: they abhorre iudgement, and peruert all equitie.
Micah 3:10	They build vp Zion with blood, and Ierusalem with iniquitie.
Micah 3:11	The heads thereof iudge for rewardes, and the Priestes thereof teache for hyre, and the prophets thereof prophecie for money: yet wil they leane vpon the Lord, and say, Is not the Lord among vs? no euill can come vpon vs.
Micah 3:12	Therefore shall Zion for your sake bee plowed as a field, and Ierusalem shalbe an heape, and the mountaine of the house, as the hye places of the forest.
Micah 4:1	But in the last dayes it shall come to passe, that the mountaine of the House of the Lord shall be prepared in the toppe of the mountaines, and it shall bee exalted aboue the hilles, and people shall flowe vnto it.
Micah 4:2	Yea, many nations shall come and say, Come, and let vs goe vp to the Mountaine of the Lord, and to the House of the God of Iaakob, and hee will teache vs his wayes, and we wil walke in his pathes: for the Lawe shall goe forth of Zion, and the worde of the Lord from Ierusalem.
Micah 4:3	And he shall iudge among many people, and rebuke mightie nations a farre off, and they shall breake their swordes into mattockes, and their speares into sithes: nation shall not lift vp a sword against nation, neither shall they learne to fight any more.
Micah 4:4	But they shall sit euery man vnder his vine, and vnder his figge tree, and none shall make them afraid: for the mouth of the Lord of hostes hath spoken it.
Micah 4:5	For all people will walke euery one in the name of his God, and we will walke in the Name of the Lord our God, for euer and euer.
Micah 4:6	At the same day, saith the Lord, will I gather her that halteth, and I will gather her that is cast out, and her that I haue afflicted.
Micah 4:7	And I will make her that halted, a remnant, and her that was cast farre off, a mightie nation: and the Lord shall reigne ouer them in Mount Zion, from hence forth euen for euer.
Micah 4:8	And thou, O towre of the flock, the strong holde of the daughter Zion, vnto thee shall it come, euen the first dominion, and kingdome shall come to the daughter Ierusalem.
Micah 4:9	Nowe why doest thou crie out with lamentation? is there no King in thee? is thy counseller perished? for sorowe hath taken thee, as a woman in trauaile.
Micah 4:10	Sorow and mourne, O daughter Zion, like a woman in trauaile: for nowe shalt thou goe foorth of the citie, and dwel in the field, and shalt goe into Babel, but there shalt thou be deliuered: there the Lord shall redeeme thee from the hand of thine enemies.
Micah 4:11	Nowe also many nations are gathered against thee, saying, Zion shalbe condemned and our eye shall looke vpon Zion.
Micah 4:12	But they knowe not the thoughtes of the Lord: they vnderstand not his counsell, for he shall gather them as the sheaues in the barne.
Micah 4:13	Arise, and thresh, O daughter Zion: for I will make thine horne yron, and I will make thine hooues brasse, and thou shalt breake in pieces many people: and I will consecrate their riches vnto the Lord, and their substance vnto the ruler of the whole worlde.
Micah 5:1	Nowe assemble thy garisons, O daughter of garisons: he hath layed siege against vs: they shall smite the iudge of Israel with a rod vpon the cheeke.
Micah 5:2	And thou Beth-leem Ephrathah art litle to bee among the thousandes of Iudah, yet out of thee shall he come forth vnto me, that shalbe the ruler in Israel: whose goings forth haue bene from the beginning and from euerlasting.
Micah 5:3	Therefore will he giue them vp, vntill the time that shee which shall beare, shall trauaile: then the remnant of their brethren shall returne vnto the children of Israel.
Micah 5:4	And he shall stand, and feed in the strength of the Lord, and in the maiestie of the Name of the Lord his God, and they shall dwel still: for now shall he be magnified vnto the ends of the world.
Micah 5:5	And hee shall be our peace when Asshur shall come into our lande: when he shall tread in our palaces, then shall we raise against him seuen shepheardes, and eight principall men.
Micah 5:6	And they shall destroy Asshur with the sword, and the land of Nimrod with their swordes: thus shall he deliuer vs from Asshur, when hee commeth into our lande, and when he shall tread within our borders.
Micah 5:7	And the remnant of Iaakob shalbe among many people, as a dewe from the Lord, and as the showres vpon the grasse, that waiteth not for man, nor hopeth in the sonnes of Adam.
Micah 5:8	And the remnant of Iaakob shalbe among the Gentiles in the middes of many people, as the lyon among the beastes of the forest, and as the lyons whelpe among the flockes of sheepe, who when he goeth thorow, treadeth downe and teareth in pieces, and none can deliuer.
Micah 5:9	Thine hand shall bee lift vp vpon thine aduersaries, and all thine enemies shalbe cut off.
Micah 5:10	And it shall come to passe in that day, sayth the Lord, that I will cut off thine horses out of the middes of thee, and I will destroy thy charets.
Micah 5:11	And I will cut off the cities of thy land, and ouerthrowe all thy strong holdes.
Micah 5:12	And I will cut off thine enchanters out of thine hande: and thou shalt haue no more southsayers.
Micah 5:13	Thine idoles also will I cut off, and thine images out of the middes of thee: and thou shalt no more worship the woorke of thine hands.
Micah 5:14	And I wil plucke vp thy groues out of the middes of thee: so will I destroy thine enemies.
Micah 5:15	And I will execute a vegeance in my wrath and indignation vpon the heathen, which they haue not heard.
Micah 6:1	Hearken ye nowe what the Lord sayth, Arise thou, and contende before the mountaines, and let the hilles heare thy voyce.
Micah 6:2	Heare ye, O mountaynes, the Lordes quarel, and ye mightie foundations of the earth: for the Lord hath a quarell against his people, and he will pleade with Israel.
Micah 6:3	O my people, what haue I done vnto thee? or wherin haue I grieued thee? testifie against me.
Micah 6:4	Surely I brought thee vp out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of seruants, and I haue sent before thee, Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.
Micah 6:5	O my people, remember nowe what Balak King of Moab had deuised, and what Balaam the sonne of Beor answered him, from Shittim vnto Gilgal, that ye may knowe the righteousnes of the Lord.
Micah 6:6	Wherewith shall I come before the Lord, and bowe my selfe before the hie God? Shall I come before him with burnt offrings, and with calues of a yeere olde?
Micah 6:7	Will the Lord be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousand riuers of oyle? shall I giue my first borne for my transgression, euen the fruite of my bodie, for the sinne of my soule?
Micah 6:8	He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good, and what the Lord requireth of thee: surely to doe iustly, and to loue mercie, and to humble thy selfe, to walke with thy God.
Micah 6:9	The Lordes voyce cryeth vnto the citie, and the man of wisedome shall see thy name: Heare the rodde, and who hath appoynted it.
Micah 6:10	Are yet the treasures of wickednes in the house of the wicked, and the scant measure, that is abominable?
Micah 6:11	Shall I iustifie the wicked balances, and the bag of deceitfull weightes?
Micah 6:12	For the rich men thereof are full of crueltie, and the inhabitants thereof haue spoken lyes, and their tongue is deceitfull in their mouth.
Micah 6:13	Therefore also will I make thee sicke in smiting thee, and in making thee desolate, because of thy sinnes.
Micah 6:14	Thou shalt eate and not be satisfied, and thy casting downe shall be in the mids of thee, and thou shalt take holde, but shalt not deliuer: and that which thou deliuerest, will I giue vp to the sworde.
Micah 6:15	Thou shalt sowe, but not reape: thou shalt treade the oliues, but thou shalt not anoint thee with oyle, and make sweete wine, but shalt not drinke wine.
Micah 6:16	For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the maner of the house of Ahab, and ye walke in their counsels, that I should make thee waste, and the inhabitants thereof an hissing: therefore ye shall beare the reproche of my people.
Micah 7:1	Woe is me, for I am as the sommer gatherings, and as the grapes of the vintage: there is no cluster to eate: my soule desired the first ripe fruites.
Micah 7:2	The good man is perished out of the earth, and there is none righteous among men: they all lye in wayte for blood: euery man hunteth his brother with a net.
Micah 7:3	To make good for the euil of their hands, the prince asked, and the iudge iudgeth for a reward: therefore the great man he speaketh out the corruption of his soule: so they wrapt it vp.
Micah 7:4	The best of them is as a brier, and the most righteous of them is sharper then a thorne hedge: the day of thy watchmen and thy visitation commeth: then shalbe their confusion.
Micah 7:5	Trust ye not in a friend, neither put ye confidence in a counseller: keepe the doores of thy mouth from her that lyeth in thy bosome.
Micah 7:6	For the sonne reuileth the father: ye daughter riseth vp against her mother: the daughter in lawe against her mother in lawe, and a mans enemies are the men of his owne house.
Micah 7:7	Therefore I will looke vnto the Lord: I will waite for God my Sauiour: my God will heare me.
Micah 7:8	Reioyce not against me, O mine enemie: though I fall, I shall arise: when I shall sit in darkenesse, the Lord shalbe a light vnto me.
Micah 7:9	I will beare the wrath of the Lord because I haue sinned against him, vntill he pleade my cause, and execute iudgement for me: then will he bring me foorth to the light, and I shall see his righteousnesse.
Micah 7:10	Then she that is mine enemie, shall looke vpon it, and shame shall couer her, which said vnto me, Where is the Lord thy God? Mine eyes shall behold her: now shall she be troden downe as the myre of the streetes.
Micah 7:11	This is ye day, that thy walles shalbe built: this day shall driue farre away the decree.
Micah 7:12	In this day also they shall come vnto thee from Asshur, and from the strong cities, and from the strong holdes euen vnto the riuer, and from Sea to Sea, and from mountaine to mountaine.
Micah 7:13	Notwithstanding, the lande shall be desolate because of them that dwell therein, and for the fruites of their inuentions.
Micah 7:14	Feed thy people with thy rod, the flocke of thine heritage (which dwell solitarie in the wood) as in the middes of Carmel: let them feede in Bashan and Gilead, as in olde time.
Micah 7:15	According to the dayes of thy comming out of the lande of Egypt, will I shewe vnto him marueilous things.
Micah 7:16	The nations shall see, and be confounded for all their power: they shall lay their hande vpon their mouth: their eares shall be deafe.
Micah 7:17	They shall licke the dust like a serpent: they shall mooue out of their holes like wormes: they shalbe afraide of the Lord our God, and shall feare because of thee.
Micah 7:18	Who is a God like vnto thee, that taketh away iniquitie, and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage! He reteineth not his wrath for euer, because mercie pleaseth him.
Micah 7:19	He will turne againe, and haue compassion vpon vs: he will subdue our iniquities, and cast all their sinnes into the bottome of the sea.
Micah 7:20	Thou wilt perfourme thy trueth to Iaakob, and mercie to Abraham, as thou hast sworne vnto our fathers in olde time.

===== BOOK: Mark =====
Mark 1:1	The beginning of the Gospel of Iesus Christ, the Sonne of God:
Mark 1:2	As it is written in the Prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
Mark 1:3	The voyce of him that cryeth in the wildernesse is, Prepare the way of the Lord: make his paths straight.
Mark 1:4	Iohn did baptize in the wildernesse, and preach the baptisme of amendment of life, for remission of sinnes.
Mark 1:5	And al ye countrey of Iudea, and they of Hierusalem went out vnto him, and were all baptized of him in the riuer Iordan, confessing their sinnes.
Mark 1:6	Nowe Iohn was clothed with camels heare, and with a girdle of a skinne about his loynes: and he did eate Locusts and wilde hony,
Mark 1:7	And preached, saying, A stronger then I commeth after me, whose shoes latchet I am not worthy to stoupe downe, and vnloose.
Mark 1:8	Trueth it is, I haue baptized you with water: but he will baptize you with the holy Ghost.
Mark 1:9	And it came to passe in those dayes, that Iesus came from Nazareth, a citie of Galile, and was baptized of Iohn in Iordan.
Mark 1:10	And assoone as he was come out of the water, Iohn saw the heauens clouen in twaine, and the holy Ghost descending vpon him like a doue.
Mark 1:11	Then there was a voyce from heauen, saying, Thou art my beloued Sonne, in whome I am well pleased.
Mark 1:12	And immediatly the Spirite driueth him into the wildernesse.
Mark 1:13	And he was there in the wildernesse fourtie daies, and was tempted of Satan: hee was also with the wilde beastes, and the Angels ministred vnto him.
Mark 1:14	Now after that Iohn was committed to prison, Iesus came into Galile, preaching the Gospel of the kingdome of God,
Mark 1:15	And saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdome of God is at hand: repent and beleeue the Gospel.
Mark 1:16	And as he walked by the sea of Galile, he saw Simon, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, (for they were fishers.)
Mark 1:17	Then Iesus said vnto them, Folow me, and I will make you to be fishers of men.
Mark 1:18	And straightway they forsooke their nets, and folowed him.
Mark 1:19	And when hee had gone a litle further thence, he sawe Iames the sonne of Zebedeus, and Iohn his brother, as they were in the ship, mending their nets.
Mark 1:20	And anon hee called them: and they left their father Zebedeus in the shippe with his hired seruants, and went their way after him.
Mark 1:21	So they entred into Capernaum, and straightway on the Sabbath day hee entred into the Synagogue, and taught.
Mark 1:22	And they were astonied at his doctrine, for he taught them as one that had authoritie, and not as the Scribes.
Mark 1:23	And there was in their Synagogue a man in whome was an vncleane spirite, and hee cried out,
Mark 1:24	Saying, Ah, what haue we to do with thee, O Iesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy vs? I knowe thee what thou art, euen that holy one of God.
Mark 1:25	And Iesus rebuked him, saying, Holde thy peace, and come out of him.
Mark 1:26	And the vncleane spirit tare him, and cried with a loude voyce, and came out of him.
Mark 1:27	And they were all amased, so that they demaunded one of another, saying, What thing is this? what newe doctrine is this? for he commandeth euen the foule spirites with authoritie, and they obey him.
Mark 1:28	And immediatly his fame spred abroade throughout all the region bordering on Galile.
Mark 1:29	And assoone as they were come out of the Synagogue, they entred into the house of Symon and Andrew, with Iames and Iohn.
Mark 1:30	And Symons wiues mother lay sicke of a feuer, and anon they told him of her.
Mark 1:31	And he came and tooke her by the hand, and lifted her vp, and the feuer forsooke her by and by, and shee ministred vnto them.
Mark 1:32	And whe euen was come, at what time the sunne setteth, they brought to him all that were diseased, and them that were possessed with deuils.
Mark 1:33	And the whole citie was gathered together at the doore.
Mark 1:34	And he healed many that were sicke of diuers diseases: and he cast out many deuils, and suffred not the deuils to say that they knewe him.
Mark 1:35	And in the morning very early before day, Iesus arose and went out into a solitarie place, and there praied.
Mark 1:36	And Simon, and they that were with him, followed carefully after him.
Mark 1:37	And when they had found him, they sayde vnto him, All men seeke for thee.
Mark 1:38	Then he said vnto them, Let vs go into the next townes, that I may preach there also: for I came out for that purpose.
Mark 1:39	And hee preached in their Synagogues, throughout all Galile, and cast the deuils out.
Mark 1:40	And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeled downe vnto him, and said to him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me cleane.
Mark 1:41	And Iesus had compassion, and put foorth his hand, and touched him, and said to him, I wil: be thou cleane.
Mark 1:42	And assone as he had spoken, immediatly ye leprosie departed from him, and he was made cleane.
Mark 1:43	And after he had giue him a streight commandement, he sent him away forthwith,
Mark 1:44	And sayde vnto him, See thou say nothing to any man, but get thee hence, and shewe thy selfe to the Priest, and offer for thy clensing those things, which Moses commanded, for a testimoniall vnto them.
Mark 1:45	But when he was departed, hee began to tel many things, and to publish the matter: so that Iesus could no more openly enter into the citie, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from euery quarter.
Mark 2:1	After a fewe dayes, hee entred into Capernaum againe, and it was noysed that he was in the house.
Mark 2:2	And anon, many gathered together, in so much that the places about the doore coulde not receiue any more and he preached the word vnto them.
Mark 2:3	And there came vnto him, that brought one sicke of the palsie, borne of foure men.
Mark 2:4	And because they could not come neere vnto him for the multitude, they vncouered ye roofe of the house where hee was: and when they had broken it open, they let downe the bed, wherein the sicke of the palsie lay.
Mark 2:5	Nowe when Iesus sawe their faith, he saide to the sicke of the palsie, Sonne, thy sinnes are forgiuen thee.
Mark 2:6	And there were certaine of the Scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts,
Mark 2:7	Why doeth this man speake such blasphemies? who can forgiue sinnes, but God onely?
Mark 2:8	And immediatly when Iesus perceiued in his spirite, that thus they reasoned with themselues, he sayde vnto them, Why reason yee these things in your hearts?
Mark 2:9	Whether is it easier to say to the sicke of the palsie, Thy sinnes are forgiuen thee? or to say, Arise, and take vp thy bed, and walke?
Mark 2:10	But that ye may knowe, that the Sonne of man hath authoritie in earth to forgiue sinnes, (he sayde vnto the sicke of the palsie.)
Mark 2:11	I say vnto thee, Arise and take vp thy bed, and get thee hence into thine owne house.
Mark 2:12	And by and by he arose, and tooke vp his bed, and went foorth before them all, in so much that they were all amased, and glorified God, saying, We neuer sawe such a thing.
Mark 2:13	Then he went foorth againe towarde the sea, and all the people resorted vnto him, and he taught them.
Mark 2:14	And as Iesus passed by, hee sawe Leui the sonne of Alpheus sit at the receit of custome, and said vnto him, Folowe me. And he arose and followed him.
Mark 2:15	And it came to passe, as Iesus sate at table in his house, many Publicanes and sinners sate at table also with Iesus, and his disciples: for there were many that followed him.
Mark 2:16	And when the Scribes and Pharises sawe him eate with the Publicanes and sinners, they sayd vnto his disciples, Howe is it, that hee eateth and drinketh with Publicanes and sinners?
Mark 2:17	Now when Iesus heard it, hee sayde vnto them, The whole haue no neede of the Physicion, but the sicke. I came not to call the righteous, but the sinners to repentance.
Mark 2:18	And the disciples of Iohn, and the Pharises did fast, and came and saide vnto him, Why doe the disciples of Iohn, and of the Pharises fast, and thy disciples fast not?
Mark 2:19	And Iesus saide vnto them, Can the children of the marriage chamber fast, whiles the bridegrome is with them? as long as they haue the bridegrome with them, they cannot fast.
Mark 2:20	But the daies will come, when the bridegrome shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast in those daies.
Mark 2:21	Also no man soweth a piece of newe cloth in an olde garment: for els the newe piece that filled it vp, taketh away somewhat from the olde, and the breach is worse.
Mark 2:22	Likewise, no man putteth newe wine into old vessels: for els the new wine breaketh the vessels, and the wine runneth out, and the vessels are lost: but newe wine must be put into new vessels.
Mark 2:23	And it came to passe as hee went through the corne on the Sabbath day, that his disciples, as they went on their way, began to plucke the eares of corne.
Mark 2:24	And the Pharises saide vnto him, Beholde, why doe they on the Sabbath day, that which is not lawfull?
Mark 2:25	And he saide to them, Haue yee neuer read what Dauid did when he had neede, and was an hungred, both he, and they that were with him?
Mark 2:26	Howe he went into the house of God, in the daies of Abiathar the hie Priest, and did eat the shewe bread, which were not lawfull to eate, but for the Priests, and gaue also to them which were with him?
Mark 2:27	And hee sayde to them, The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath.
Mark 2:28	Wherefore the Sonne of man is Lord, euen of the Sabbath.
Mark 3:1	And he entred againe into ye Synagogue, and there was a man which had a withered had.
Mark 3:2	And they watched him, whether he would heale him on the Sabbath day, that they might accuse him.
Mark 3:3	Then he saide vnto the man which had the withered hand, Arise: stand forth in the middes.
Mark 3:4	And he saide to them, Is it lawfull to doe a good deede on the Sabbath day, or to doe euil? to saue the life, or to kill? But they held their peace.
Mark 3:5	Then hee looked rounde about on them angerly, mourning also for the hardnesse of their hearts, and saide to the man, Stretch foorth thine hand. And he stretched it out: and his hande was restored, as whole as the other.
Mark 3:6	And the Pharises departed, and straightway gathered a councill with the Herodians against him, that they might destroy him.
Mark 3:7	But Iesus auoided with his disciples to the sea: and a great multitude followed him from Galile, and from Iudea,
Mark 3:8	And from Ierusalem, and from Idumea, and beyonde Iordan: and they that dwelled about Tyrus and Sidon, when they had heard what great things he did, came vnto him in great number.
Mark 3:9	And he commanded his disciples, that a litle shippe should waite for him, because of the multitude, lest they shoulde throng him.
Mark 3:10	For hee had healed many, in so much that they preassed vpon him to touch him, as many as had plagues.
Mark 3:11	And when the vncleane spirits sawe him, they fel downe before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Sonne of God.
Mark 3:12	And he sharply rebuked them, to the ende they should not vtter him.
Mark 3:13	Then hee went vp into a mountaine, and called vnto him whome he woulde, and they came vnto him.
Mark 3:14	And hee appoynted twelue that they should be with him, and that he might send them to preache,
Mark 3:15	And that they might haue power to heale sicknesses, and to cast out deuils.
Mark 3:16	And the first was Simon, and hee named Simon, Peter,
Mark 3:17	Then Iames the sonne of Zebedeus, and Iohn Iames brother (and surnamed them Boanerges, which is, the sonnes of thunder,)
Mark 3:18	And Andrew, and Philippe, and Bartlemew, and Matthewe, and Thomas, and Iames, the sonne of Alpheus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Cananite,
Mark 3:19	And Iudas Iscariot, who also betraied him, and they came home.
Mark 3:20	And the multitude assembled againe, so that they could not so much as eate bread.
Mark 3:21	And when his kinsfolkes heard of it, they went out to laie hold on him: for they sayde that he was beside himselfe.
Mark 3:22	And the Scribes which came downe from Hierusalem, saide, He hath Beelzebub, and through the prince of the deuils he casteth out deuils.
Mark 3:23	But he called them vnto him, and said vnto them in parables, How can Satan driue out Satan?
Mark 3:24	For if a kingdome bee deuided against it selfe, that kingdome can not stand.
Mark 3:25	Or if a house bee deuided against it selfe, that house can not continue.
Mark 3:26	So if Satan make insurrection against himselfe, and be deuided, hee can not endure but is at an ende.
Mark 3:27	No man can enter into a strong mans house, and take away his goods, except hee first binde that strong man, and then spoyle his house.
Mark 3:28	Verely I say vnto you, all sinnes shalbe forgiuen vnto the children of men, and blasphemies, wherewith they blaspheme:
Mark 3:29	But hee that blasphemeth against the holy Ghost, shall neuer haue forgiuenesse, but is culpable of eternall damnation.
Mark 3:30	Because they saide, Hee had an vncleane spirit.
Mark 3:31	Then came his brethren and mother, and stoode without, and sent vnto him, and called him.
Mark 3:32	And the people sate about him, and they said vnto him, Beholde, thy mother, and thy brethren seeke for thee without.
Mark 3:33	But hee answered them, saying, Who is my mother and my brethren?
Mark 3:34	And hee looked rounde about on them, which sate in compasse about him, and saide, Beholde my mother and my brethren.
Mark 3:35	For whosoeuer doeth the will of God, he is my brother, and my sister, and mother.
Mark 4:1	And hee began againe to teache by the sea side, and there gathered vnto him a great multitude, so that hee entred into a shippe, and sate in the sea, and all the people was by the sea side on the land.
Mark 4:2	And he taught them many things in parables, and said vnto them in his doctrine,
Mark 4:3	Hearken: Beholde, there went out a sower to sowe.
Mark 4:4	And it came to passe as he sowed, that some fell by the way side, and the foules of the heauen came, and deuoured it vp.
Mark 4:5	And some fell on stonie grounde, where it had not much earth, and by and by sprang vp, because it had not depth of earth.
Mark 4:6	But assoone as ye Sunne was vp, it was burnt vp, and because it had not roote, it withered away.
Mark 4:7	And some fell among the thornes, and the thornes grewe vp, and choked it, so that it gaue no fruite.
Mark 4:8	Some againe fell in good grounde, and did yeelde fruite that sprong vp, and grewe, and it brought foorth, some thirtie folde, some sixtie folde, and some an hundreth folde.
Mark 4:9	Then he said vnto them, He that hath eares to heare, let him heare.
Mark 4:10	And whe he was alone, they that were about him with the twelue, asked him of ye parable.
Mark 4:11	And he saide vnto them, To you it is giuen to knowe the mysterie of the kingdome of God: but vnto them that are without, all thinges bee done in parables,
Mark 4:12	That they seeing, may see, and not discerne: and they hearing, may heare, and not vnderstand, least at any time they should turne, and their sinnes should be forgiuen them.
Mark 4:13	Againe he said vnto them, Perceiue ye not this parable? howe then should ye vnderstand all other parables?
Mark 4:14	The sower soweth the worde.
Mark 4:15	And these are they that receiue the seede by the wayes side, in whome the worde is sowen: but when they haue heard it, Satan commeth immediatly, and taketh away the worde that was sowen in their heartes.
Mark 4:16	And likewise they that receiue the seede in stony ground, are they, which whe they haue heard the word, straightwayes receiue it with gladnesse.
Mark 4:17	Yet haue they no roote in themselues, and endure but a time: for when trouble and persecution ariseth for the worde, immediatly they be offended.
Mark 4:18	Also they that receiue the seede among the thornes, are such as heare the word:
Mark 4:19	But the cares of this world, and the deceitfulnes of riches, and the lustes of other things enter in, and choke the word, and it is vnfruitfull.
Mark 4:20	But they that haue receiued seede in good ground, are they that heare the worde, and receiue it, and bring foorth fruite: one corne thirtie, another sixtie, and some an hundreth.
Mark 4:21	Also he saide vnto them, Commeth the candle in, to be put vnder a bushell, or vnder the bed, and not to be put on a candlesticke?
Mark 4:22	For there is nothing hid, that shall not be opened: neither is there a secret, but that it shall come to light.
Mark 4:23	If any man haue eares to heare, let him heare.
Mark 4:24	And he said vnto them, Take heede what ye heare. With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured vnto you: and vnto you that heare, shall more be giuen.
Mark 4:25	For vnto him that hath, shall it be giuen, and from him that hath not, shall be taken away, euen that he hath.
Mark 4:26	Also he said, So is the kingdome of God, as if a man should cast seede in the ground,
Mark 4:27	And shoulde sleepe, and rise vp night and day, and the seede should spring and growe vp, he not knowing howe.
Mark 4:28	For the earth bringeth foorth fruite of it selfe, first the blade, then the eares, after that full corne in the eares.
Mark 4:29	And assoone as the fruite sheweth it selfe, anon hee putteth in the sickle, because the haruest is come.
Mark 4:30	He saide moreouer, Whereunto shall wee liken the kingdome of God? or with what comparison shall we compare it?
Mark 4:31	It is like a graine of mustarde seede, which when it is sowen in the earth, is the least of all seedes that be in the earth:
Mark 4:32	But after that it is sowen, it groweth vp, and is greatest of all herbes, and beareth great branches, so that the foules of heauen may builde vnder the shadow of it.
Mark 4:33	And with many such parables he preached the word vnto them, as they were able to heare it.
Mark 4:34	And without parables spake hee nothing vnto them: but he expounded all thinges to his disciples apart.
Mark 4:35	Nowe the same day when euen was come, he saide vnto them, Let vs passe ouer vnto the other side.
Mark 4:36	And they left the multitude, and tooke him as he was in the shippe, and there were also with him other little shippes.
Mark 4:37	And there arose a great storme of winde, and the waues dashed into the shippe, so that it was now full.
Mark 4:38	And he was in the sterne asleepe on a pillow: and they awoke him, and saide to him, Master, carest thou not that we perish?
Mark 4:39	And hee rose vp, and rebuked the winde, and saide vnto the sea, Peace, and be still. So the winde ceased, and it was a great calme.
Mark 4:40	Then he saide vnto them, Why are ye so fearefull? how is it that ye haue no faith?
Mark 4:41	And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, Who is this, that both the winde and sea obey him?
Mark 5:1	And they came ouer to the other side of the sea into the countrey of the Gadarens.
Mark 5:2	And when he was come out of the shippe, there met him incontinently out of the graues, a man which had an vncleane spirit:
Mark 5:3	Who had his abiding among the graues, and no man could binde him, no not with chaines:
Mark 5:4	Because that when hee was often bounde with fetters and chaines, he plucked the chaines asunder, and brake the fetters in pieces, neither could any man tame him.
Mark 5:5	And alwayes both night and day he cryed in the mountaines, and in the graues, and strooke himselfe with stones.
Mark 5:6	And when he saw Iesus afarre off, he ranne, and worshipped him,
Mark 5:7	And cryed with a loude voyce, and saide, What haue I to doe with thee, Iesus the Sonne of the most high God? I will that thou sweare to me by God, that thou torment me not.
Mark 5:8	(For hee saide vnto him, Come out of the man, thou vncleane spirit.)
Mark 5:9	And he asked him, What is thy name? and hee answered, saying, My name is Legion: for we are many.
Mark 5:10	And hee prayed him instantly, that hee would not send them away out of the countrey.
Mark 5:11	Now there was there in the mountaines a great heard of swine, feeding.
Mark 5:12	And all ye deuils besought him, saying, Send vs into the swine, that we may enter into them.
Mark 5:13	And incontinently Iesus gaue them leaue. Then the vncleane spirites went out, and entred into the swine, and the heard ranne headlong from the high banke into the sea, (and there were about two thousand swine) and they were choked vp in the sea.
Mark 5:14	And the swineheards fled, and told it in the citie, and in the countrey, and they came out to see what it was that was done.
Mark 5:15	And they came to Iesus, and sawe him that had bene possessed with the deuil, and had the legion, sit both clothed, and in his right minde: and they were afraide.
Mark 5:16	And they that saw it, tolde them, what was done to him that was possessed with the deuil, and concerning the swine.
Mark 5:17	Then they began to pray him, that hee would depart from their coastes.
Mark 5:18	And when he was come into the shippe, he that had bene possessed with the deuil, prayed him that he might be with him.
Mark 5:19	Howbeit, Iesus would not suffer him, but said vnto him, Goe thy way home to thy friendes, and shewe them what great thinges the Lord hath done vnto thee, and howe hee hath had compassion on thee.
Mark 5:20	So he departed, and began to publish in Decapolis, what great things Iesus had done vnto him: and all men did marueile.
Mark 5:21	And when Iesus was come ouer againe by ship vnto the other side, a great multitude gathered together to him, and he was neere vnto the sea.
Mark 5:22	And beholde, there came one of the rulers of the Synagogue, whose name was Iairus: and when he sawe him, he fell downe at his feete,
Mark 5:23	And besought him instantly, saying, My litle daughter lyeth at point of death: I pray thee that thou wouldest come and lay thine hands on her, that she may be healed, and liue.
Mark 5:24	Then hee went with him, and a great multitude folowed him, and thronged him.
Mark 5:25	(And there was a certaine woman, which was diseased with an issue of blood twelue yeeres,
Mark 5:26	And had suffred many things of many physicions, and had spent all that she had, and it auailed her nothing, but she became much worse.
Mark 5:27	When she had heard of Iesus, shee came in the preasse behinde, and touched his garment.
Mark 5:28	For she said, If I may but touch his clothes, I shalbe whole.
Mark 5:29	And straightway the course of her blood was dried vp, and she felt in her body, that she was healed of that plague.
Mark 5:30	And immediatly when Iesus did knowe in himselfe the vertue that went out of him, he turned him round about in the preasse, and said, Who hath touched my clothes?
Mark 5:31	And his disciples said vnto him, Thou seest the multitude throng thee, and sayest thou, Who did touche me?
Mark 5:32	And he looked round about, to see her that had done that.
Mark 5:33	And the woman feared and trembled: for she knewe what was done in her, and shee came and fell downe before him, and tolde him the whole trueth.
Mark 5:34	And hee saide to her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole: go in peace, and be whole of thy plague.)
Mark 5:35	While hee yet spake, there came from the same ruler of the Synagogues house certaine which said, Thy daughter is dead: why diseasest thou the Master any further?
Mark 5:36	Assoone as Iesus heard that word spoken, he said vnto the ruler of the Synagogue, Be not afraide: onely beleeue.
Mark 5:37	And he suffered no man to follow him saue Peter and Iames, and Iohn the brother of Iames.
Mark 5:38	So hee came vnto the house of the ruler of the Synagogue, and sawe the tumult, and them that wept and wailed greatly.
Mark 5:39	And he went in, and said vnto them, Why make ye this trouble, and weepe? the childe is not dead, but sleepeth.
Mark 5:40	And they laught him to scorne: but hee put them all out, and tooke the father, and the mother of the childe, and them that were with him, and entred in where the childe lay,
Mark 5:41	And tooke the childe by the hand, and saide vnto her, Talitha cumi, which is by interpretation, Mayden, I say vnto thee, arise.
Mark 5:42	And straightway the mayden arose, and walked: for shee was of the age of twelue yeeres, and they were astonied out of measure.
Mark 5:43	And he charged them straitly that no man should knowe of it, and commanded to giue her meate.
Mark 6:1	And he departed thence, and came into his owne countrey, and his disciples followed him.
Mark 6:2	And when the Sabbath was come, he began to teach in the Synagogue, and many that heard him, were astonied, and sayd, From whence hath this man these things? and what wisdome is this that is giuen vnto him, that euen such great workes are done by his hands?
Mark 6:3	Is not this that carpenter Maries sonne, the brother of Iames and Ioses, and of Iuda and Simon? and are not his sisters here with vs? And they were offended in him.
Mark 6:4	Then Iesus sayd vnto them, A Prophet is not without honour, but in his owne countrey, and among his owne kindred, and in his own house.
Mark 6:5	And he could there doe no great workes, saue that hee layd his hands vpon a fewe sicke folke, and healed them,
Mark 6:6	And he marueiled at their vnbeliefe, and went about by ye townes on euery side, teaching.
Mark 6:7	And he called vnto him the twelue, and began to send them forth two and two, and gaue them power ouer vncleane spirits,
Mark 6:8	And commanded them that they should take nothing for their iourney, saue a staffe onely: neither scrip, neither bread, neither money in their girdles:
Mark 6:9	But that they should be shod with sandals, and that they should not put on two coates.
Mark 6:10	And he sayd vnto them, Wheresoeuer ye shall enter into an house, there abide till ye depart thence.
Mark 6:11	And whosoeuer shall not receiue you, nor heare you, when ye depart thence, shake off the dust that is vnder your feete, for a witnes vnto them. Verely I say vnto you, It shalbe easier for Sodom, or Gomorrha at the day of iudgement, then for that citie.
Mark 6:12	And they went out, and preached, that men should amend their liues.
Mark 6:13	And they cast out many deuils: and they anointed many that were sicke, with oyle, and healed them.
Mark 6:14	Then King Herod heard of him (for his name was made manifest) and sayd, Iohn Baptist is risen againe from the dead, and therefore great workes are wrought by him.
Mark 6:15	Other sayd, It is Elias, and some sayd, It is a Prophet, or as one of those Prophets.
Mark 6:16	So when Herod heard it, he said, It is Iohn whom I beheaded: he is risen from the dead.
Mark 6:17	For Herod him selfe had sent forth, and had taken Iohn, and bound him in prison for Herodias sake, which was his brother Philippes wife, because he had maried her.
Mark 6:18	For Iohn sayd vnto Herod, It is not lawfull for thee to haue thy brothers wife.
Mark 6:19	Therefore Herodias layd waite against him, and would haue killed him, but she could not:
Mark 6:20	For Herod feared Iohn, knowing that hee was a iust man, and an holy, and reuerenced him, and when he heard him, he did many things, and heard him gladly.
Mark 6:21	But the time being conuenient, when Herod on his birth day made a banket to his princes and captaines, and chiefe estates of Galile:
Mark 6:22	And the daughter of the same Herodias came in, and daunced, and pleased Herod, and them that sate at table together, the King sayd vnto the mayde, Aske of me what thou wilt, and I will giue it thee.
Mark 6:23	And he sware vnto her, Whatsoeuer thou shalt aske of me, I will giue it thee, euen vnto the halfe of my kingdome.
Mark 6:24	So she went forth, and said to her mother, What shall I aske? And she said, Iohn Baptists head.
Mark 6:25	Then she came in straightway with haste vnto the King, and asked, saying, I would that thou shouldest giue me euen now in a charger the head of Iohn Baptist.
Mark 6:26	Then the King was very sory: yet for his othes sake, and for their sakes which sate at table with him, he would not refuse her.
Mark 6:27	And immediatly the King sent the hangman, and gaue charge that his head shoulde be brought in. So he went and beheaded him in the prison,
Mark 6:28	And brought his head in a charger, and gaue it to the maide, and the maide gaue it to her mother.
Mark 6:29	And when his disciples heard it, they came and tooke vp his body, and put it in a tombe.
Mark 6:30	And the Apostles gathered themselues together to Iesus, and tolde him all things, both what they had done, and what they had taught.
Mark 6:31	And he sayd vnto them, Come ye apart into the wildernes, and rest a while: for there were many commers and goers, that they had not leasure to eate.
Mark 6:32	So they went by ship out of the way into a desart place.
Mark 6:33	But the people sawe them when they departed, and many knewe him, and ran a foote thither out of all cities, and came thither before them, and assembled vnto him.
Mark 6:34	Then Iesus went out, and sawe a great multitude, and had compassion on them, because they were like sheepe which had no shepheard: and he began to teach them many things.
Mark 6:35	And when the day was nowe farre spent, his disciples came vnto him, saying, This is a desart place, and nowe the day is farre passed.
Mark 6:36	Let them depart, that they may goe into the countrey and townes about, and buy them bread: for they haue nothing to eate.
Mark 6:37	But he answered, and said vnto them, Giue yee them to eate. And they said vnto him, Shall we goe, and buy two hundreth peny worth of bread, and giue them to eate?
Mark 6:38	Then he sayde vnto them, Howe many loaues haue ye? goe and looke. And when they knewe it, they sayd, Fiue, and two fishes.
Mark 6:39	So he commanded them to make them all sit downe by companies vpon the greene grasse.
Mark 6:40	Then they sate downe by rowes, by hundreds, and by fifties.
Mark 6:41	And he tooke the fiue loaues, and the two fishes, and looked vp to heauen, and gaue thanks, and brake the loaues, and gaue them to his disciples to set before them, and the two fishes he deuided among them all.
Mark 6:42	So they did all eate, and were satisfied.
Mark 6:43	And they tooke vp twelue baskets full of the fragments, and of the fishes.
Mark 6:44	And they that had eaten, were about fiue thousand men.
Mark 6:45	And straightway he caused his disciples to goe into the ship, and to goe before vnto the other side vnto Bethsaida, while he sent away the people.
Mark 6:46	Then assoone as he had sent them away, he departed into a mountaine to pray.
Mark 6:47	And when euen was come, the ship was in the mids of the sea, and he alone on the land.
Mark 6:48	And he saw them troubled in rowing, (for the winde was contrary vnto them) and about the fourth watch of the night, hee came vnto them, walking vpon the sea, and would haue passed by them.
Mark 6:49	And when they saw him walking vpon the sea, they supposed it had bene a spirit, and cried out.
Mark 6:50	For they all saw him, and were sore afrayd: but anon he talked with them, and said vnto them, Be ye of good comfort: it is I, be not afrayd.
Mark 6:51	Then he went vp vnto them into the ship, and the winde ceased, and they were much more amased in them selues, and marueiled.
Mark 6:52	For they had not considered the matter of the loaues, because their hearts were hardened.
Mark 6:53	And they came ouer, and went into the land of Gennesaret, and arriued.
Mark 6:54	So when they were come out of the ship, straightway they knewe him,
Mark 6:55	And ran about throughout all that region round about, and began to cary hither and thither in couches all that were sicke, where they heard that he was.
Mark 6:56	And whithersoeuer he entred into townes, or cities, or villages, they laide their sicke in the streetes, and prayed him that they might touch at the least the edge of his garment. And as many as touched him, were made whole.
Mark 7:1	Then gathered vnto him the Pharises, and certaine of the Scribes which came from Hierusalem.
Mark 7:2	And when they sawe some of his disciples eate meate with common hands, (that is to say, vnwashen) they complained.
Mark 7:3	(For the Pharises, and all the Iewes, except they wash their hands oft, eate not, holding the tradition of the Elders.
Mark 7:4	And when they come from the market, except they wash, they eate not: and many other things there be, which they haue taken vpon them to obserue, as the washing of cups, and pots, and of brasen vessels, and of beds.)
Mark 7:5	Then asked him the Pharises and Scribes, Why walke not thy disciples according to the tradition of the Elders, but eate meate with vnwashen hands?
Mark 7:6	Then hee answered and sayd vnto them, Surely Esay hath prophecied well of you, hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoureth mee with lippes, but their heart is farre away from me.
Mark 7:7	But they worship me in vaine, teaching for doctrines the commandements of men.
Mark 7:8	For ye lay the commandement of God apart, and obserue the tradition of men, as the washing of pots and of cups, and many other such like things ye doe.
Mark 7:9	And he sayd vnto them, Well, ye reiect the commandement of God, that ye may obserue your owne tradition.
Mark 7:10	For Moses sayd, Honour thy father and thy mother: and Whosoeuer shall speake euill of father or mother, let him die the death.
Mark 7:11	But yee say, If a man say to father or mother, Corban, that is, By the gift that is offered by mee, thou mayest haue profite, hee shall be free.
Mark 7:12	So ye suffer him no more to doe any thing for his father, or his mother,
Mark 7:13	Making the worde of God of none authoritie, by your tradition which ye haue ordeined: and ye doe many such like things.
Mark 7:14	Then he called the whole multitude vnto him, and sayd vnto them, Hearken you all vnto me, and vnderstand.
Mark 7:15	There is nothing without a man, that can defile him, when it entreth into him: but the things which proceede out of him, are they which defile the man.
Mark 7:16	If any haue eares to heare, let him heare.
Mark 7:17	And when hee came into an house, away from the people, his disciples asked him concerning the parable.
Mark 7:18	And he sayde vnto them, What? are ye without vnderstanding also? Doe ye not knowe that whatsoeuer thing from without entreth into a man, cannot defile him,
Mark 7:19	Because it entreth not into his heart, but into the belly, and goeth out into the draught which is the purging of all meates?
Mark 7:20	Then he sayd, That which commeth out of man, that defileth man.
Mark 7:21	For from within, euen out of the heart of men, proceede euill thoughtes, adulteries, fornications, murthers,
Mark 7:22	Theftes, couetousnes, wickednes, deceite, vncleannes, a wicked eye, backbiting, pride, foolishnesse.
Mark 7:23	All these euill things come from within, and defile a man.
Mark 7:24	And from thence he rose, and went into the borders of Tyrus and Sidon, and entred into an house, and woulde that no man should haue knowen: but he could not be hid.
Mark 7:25	For a certaine woman, whose litle daughter had an vncleane spirit, heard of him, and came, and fell at his feete,
Mark 7:26	(And the woman was a Greeke, a Syrophenissian by nation) and she besought him that he would cast out the deuill out of her daughter.
Mark 7:27	But Iesus saide vnto her, Let the children first be fedde: for it is not good to take the childrens bread, and to cast it vnto whelpes.
Mark 7:28	Then shee answered, and saide vnto him, Trueth, Lord: yet in deede the whelpes eate vnder the table of the childrens crommes.
Mark 7:29	Then he said vnto her, For this saying goe thy way: the deuil is gone out of thy daughter.
Mark 7:30	And when shee was come home to her house, shee founde the deuill departed, and her daughter lying on the bed.
Mark 7:31	And hee departed againe from the coastes of Tyrus and Sidon, and came vnto the sea of Galile, through the middes of the coastes of Decapolis.
Mark 7:32	And they brought vnto him one that was deafe and stambered in his speache, and prayed him to put his hand vpon him.
Mark 7:33	Then hee tooke him aside from the multitude, and put his fingers in his eares, and did spit, and touched his tongue.
Mark 7:34	And looking vp to heauen, hee sighed, and said vnto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened.
Mark 7:35	And straightway his eares were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and hee spake plaine.
Mark 7:36	And he commanded them, that they should tell no man: but howe much soeuer hee forbad them, the more a great deale they published it,
Mark 7:37	And were beyonde measure astonied, saying, Hee hath done all thinges well: he maketh both the deafe to heare, and the domme to speake.
Mark 8:1	In those dayes, when there was a very great multitude, and had nothing to eate, Iesus called his disciples to him, and said vnto them,
Mark 8:2	I haue compassion on the multitude, because they haue nowe continued with mee three dayes, and haue nothing to eate.
Mark 8:3	And if I sende them away fasting to their owne houses, they woulde faint by the way: for some of them came from farre.
Mark 8:4	Then his disciples answered him, Whence can a man satisfie these with bread here in the wildernes?
Mark 8:5	And hee asked them, Howe many loaues haue ye? And they said, Seuen.
Mark 8:6	Then he commanded the multitude to sit downe on the grounde: and hee tooke the seuen loaues, and gaue thankes, brake them, and gaue to his disciples to set before them, and they did set them before the people.
Mark 8:7	They had also a few small fishes: and when he had giuen thankes, he commanded them also to be set before them.
Mark 8:8	So they did eate, and were sufficed, and they tooke vp of the broken meate that was left, seuen baskets full.
Mark 8:9	(And they that had eaten, were about foure thousand) so he sent them away.
Mark 8:10	And anon he entred into a ship with his disciples, and came into the parts of Dalmanutha.
Mark 8:11	And the Pharises came foorth, and began to dispute with him, seeking of him a signe from heauen, and tempting him.
Mark 8:12	Then hee sighed deepely in his spirit, and saide, Why doeth this generation seeke a signe? Verely I say vnto you, a signe shall not be giuen vnto this generation.
Mark 8:13	So he left them, and went into the ship againe, and departed to the other side.
Mark 8:14	And they had forgotten to take bread, neither had they in the shippe with them, but one loafe.
Mark 8:15	And he charged them, saying, Take heede, and beware of the leauen of the Pharises, and of the leauen of Herod.
Mark 8:16	And they reasoned among themselues, saying, It is, because we haue no bread.
Mark 8:17	And when Iesus knew it, he said vnto them, Why reason you thus, because ye haue no bread? perceiue ye not yet, neither vnderstande? haue ye your hearts yet hardened?
Mark 8:18	Haue yee eyes, and see not? and haue yee eares, and heare not? and doe ye not remember?
Mark 8:19	When I brake the fiue loaues among fiue thousand, how many baskets full of broken meate tooke ye vp? They said vnto him, Twelue.
Mark 8:20	And when I brake seuen among foure thousande, howe many baskets of the leauings of broken meate tooke ye vp? And they said, Seuen.
Mark 8:21	Then he saide vnto them, Howe is it that ye vnderstand not?
Mark 8:22	And hee came to Bethsaida, and they brought a blinde man vnto him, and desired him to touch him.
Mark 8:23	Then he tooke the blinde by the hand, and ledde him out of the towne, and spat in his eyes, and put his handes vpon him, and asked him, if he sawe ought.
Mark 8:24	And he looked vp, and said, I see men: for I see them walking like trees.
Mark 8:25	After that, he put his hands againe vpon his eyes, and made him looke againe. And hee was restored to his sight, and sawe euery man a farre off clearely.
Mark 8:26	And hee sent him home to his house, saying, Neither goe into the towne, nor tell it to any in the towne.
Mark 8:27	And Iesus went out, and his disciples into the townes of Cesarea Philippi. And by the way hee asked his disciples, saying vnto them, Whome doe men say that I am?
Mark 8:28	And they answered, Some say, Iohn Baptist: and some, Elias: and some, one of the Prophets.
Mark 8:29	And he said vnto them, But whome say ye that I am? Then Peter answered, and saide vnto him, Thou art that Christ.
Mark 8:30	And he sharpely charged them, that concerning him they should tell no man.
Mark 8:31	Then hee began to teache them that the Sonne of man must suffer many things, and should be reproued of the Elders, and of the hie Priestes, and of the Scribes, and be slaine, and within three dayes rise againe.
Mark 8:32	And he spake that thing boldly. Then Peter tooke him aside, and began to rebuke him.
Mark 8:33	Then he turned backe, and looked on his disciples, and rebuked Peter, saying, Get thee behinde me, Satan: for thou vnderstandest not the things that are of God, but the things that are of men.
Mark 8:34	And hee called the people vnto him with his disciples, and saide vnto them, Whosoeuer will follow me, let him forsake himselfe, and take vp his crosse, and follow me.
Mark 8:35	For whosoeuer will saue his life, shall lose it: but whosoeuer shall lose his life for my sake and the Gospels, he shall saue it.
Mark 8:36	For what shall it profite a man, though he should winne the whole world, if he lose his soule?
Mark 8:37	Or what exchange shall a man giue for his soule?
Mark 8:38	For whosoeuer shall be ashamed of mee, and of my wordes among this adulterous and sinfull generation, of him shall the Sonne of man be ashamed also, when he commeth in the glorie of his Father with the holy Angels.
Mark 9:1	And he saide vnto them, Verely I say vnto you, that there be some of them that stande here, which shall not taste of death till they haue seene the kingdome of God come with power.
Mark 9:2	And sixe dayes after, Iesus taketh vnto him Peter, and Iames, and Iohn, and carieth them vp into an hie mountaine out of the way alone, and his shape was changed before them.
Mark 9:3	And his rayment did shine, and was very white, as snowe, so white as no fuller can make vpon the earth.
Mark 9:4	And there appeared vnto them Elias with Moses, and they were talking with Iesus.
Mark 9:5	Then Peter answered, and said to Iesus, Master, it is good for vs to be here: let vs make also three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.
Mark 9:6	Yet hee knewe not what he saide: for they were afraide.
Mark 9:7	And there was a cloude that shadowed them, and a voyce came out of the cloude, saying, This is my beloued Sonne: heare him.
Mark 9:8	And suddenly they looked roud about, and sawe no more any man saue Iesus only with them.
Mark 9:9	And as they came downe from the mountaine, he charged them, that they should tell no man what they had seene, saue when the Sonne of man were risen from the dead againe.
Mark 9:10	So they kept that matter to themselues, and demaunded one of another, what the rising from the dead againe should meane?
Mark 9:11	Also they asked him, saying, Why say the Scribes, that Elias must first come?
Mark 9:12	And he answered, and said vnto them, Elias verely shall first come, and restore all things: and as it is written of the Sonne of man, hee must suffer many things, and be set at nought.
Mark 9:13	But I say vnto you, that Elias is come, (and they haue done vnto him whatsoeuer they would) as it is written of him.
Mark 9:14	And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and the Scribes disputing with them.
Mark 9:15	And straightway all the people, when they behelde him, were amased, and ranne to him, and saluted him.
Mark 9:16	Then hee asked the Scribes, What dispute you among your selues?
Mark 9:17	And one of the companie answered, and said, Master, I haue brought my sonne vnto thee, which hath a dumme spirit:
Mark 9:18	And wheresoeuer he taketh him, he teareth him, and he fometh, and gnasheth his teeth, and pineth away: and I spake to thy disciples, that they should cast him out, and they could not.
Mark 9:19	Then he answered him, and said, O faithlesse generation, how long now shall I be with you! how long now shall I suffer you! Bring him vnto me.
Mark 9:20	So they brought him vnto him: and assoone as the spirit sawe him, hee tare him, and hee fell downe on the ground walowing and foming.
Mark 9:21	Then he asked his father, How long time is it since he hath bin thus? And he said, Of a childe.
Mark 9:22	And oft times he casteth him into the fire, and into the water to destroy him: but if thou canst do any thing, helpe vs, and haue compassion vpon vs.
Mark 9:23	And Iesus said vnto him, If thou canst beleeue it, al things are possible to him that beleeueth.
Mark 9:24	And straightway the father of the childe crying with teares, saide, Lord, I beleeue: helpe my vnbeliefe.
Mark 9:25	When Iesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the vncleane spirit, saying vnto him, Thou domme and deafe spirit, I charge thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him.
Mark 9:26	Then the spirit cried, and rent him sore, and came out, and he was as one dead, in so much that many said, He is dead.
Mark 9:27	But Iesus tooke his hande, and lift him vp, and he arose.
Mark 9:28	And when hee was come into the house, his disciples asked him secretly, Why could not we cast him out?
Mark 9:29	And he saide vnto them, This kinde can by no other meanes come foorth, but by prayer and fasting.
Mark 9:30	And they departed thence, and went together through Galile, and hee would not that any should haue knowen it.
Mark 9:31	For he taught his disciples, and saide vnto them, The Sonne of man shalbe deliuered into the handes of men, and they shall kill him, but after that he is killed, he shall rise againe the third day.
Mark 9:32	But they vnderstoode not that saying, and were afraide to aske him.
Mark 9:33	After, he came to Capernaum: and when he was in the house, he asked them, What was it that ye disputed among you by the way?
Mark 9:34	And they helde their peace: for by the way they reasoned among themselues, who should bee the chiefest.
Mark 9:35	And he sate downe, and called the twelue, and said to them, If any man desire to be first, the same shalbe last of all, and seruant vnto all.
Mark 9:36	And he tooke a litle childe, and set him in the middes of them, and tooke him in his armes, and sayd vnto them,
Mark 9:37	Whosoeuer shall receiue one of such litle children in my Name, receiueth me: and whosoeuer receiueth mee, receiueth not me, but him that sent me.
Mark 9:38	Then Iohn answered him, saying, Master, we sawe one casting out deuils by thy Name, which followeth not vs, and we forbade him, because he followeth vs not.
Mark 9:39	But Iesus sayd, Forbid him not: for there is no man that can doe a miracle by my Name, that can lightly speake euill of me.
Mark 9:40	For whosoeuer is not against vs, is on our part.
Mark 9:41	And whosoeuer shall giue you a cup of water to drinke for my Names sake, because ye belong to Christ, verely I say vnto you, he shall not lose his rewarde.
Mark 9:42	And whosoeuer shall offend one of these litle ones, that beleeue in me, it were better for him rather, that a milstone were hanged about his necke, and that he were cast into the sea.
Mark 9:43	Wherefore, if thine hand cause thee to offend, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter into life, maimed, then hauing two hands, to goe into hell, into the fire that neuer shalbe quenched,
Mark 9:44	Where their worme dyeth not, and the fire neuer goeth out.
Mark 9:45	Likewise, if thy foote cause thee to offend, cut it off: it is better for thee to go halt into life, then hauing two feete, to be cast into hell, into the fire that neuer shalbe quenched,
Mark 9:46	Where their worme dyeth not, and the fire neuer goeth out.
Mark 9:47	And if thine eye cause thee to offende, plucke it out: it is better for thee to goe into the kingdome of God with one eye, then hauing two eyes, to be cast into hell fire,
Mark 9:48	Where their worme dyeth not, and the fire neuer goeth out.
Mark 9:49	For euery man shalbe salted with fire: and euery sacrifice shalbe salted with salt.
Mark 9:50	Salt is good: but if the salt be vnsauerie, wherewith shall it be seasoned? haue salt in your selues, and haue peace one with another.
Mark 10:1	And he arose from thence, and went into the coastes of Iudea by the farre side of Iordan, and the people resorted vnto him againe, and as he was wont, he taught them againe.
Mark 10:2	Then the Pharises came and asked him, if it were lawfull for a man to put away his wife, and tempted him.
Mark 10:3	And he answered, and sayde vnto them, What did Moses commaund you?
Mark 10:4	And they sayd, Moses suffered to write a bill of diuorcement, and to put her away.
Mark 10:5	Then Iesus answered, and sayd vnto them, For the hardnesse of your heart he wrote this precept vnto you.
Mark 10:6	But at the beginning of the creation God made them male and female:
Mark 10:7	For this cause shall man leaue his father and mother, and cleaue vnto his wife.
Mark 10:8	And they twaine shalbe one flesh: so that they are no more twaine, but one flesh.
Mark 10:9	Therefore, what God hath coupled together, let not man separate.
Mark 10:10	And in the house his disciples asked him againe of that matter.
Mark 10:11	And he sayd vnto them, Whosoeuer shall put away his wife and marrie another, committeth adulterie against her.
Mark 10:12	And if a woman put away her husband, and be married to another, she committeth adulterie.
Mark 10:13	Then they brought litle children to him, that he should touch them, and his disciples rebuked those that brought them.
Mark 10:14	But when Iesus sawe it, he was displeased, and said to them, Suffer the litle children to come vnto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdome of God.
Mark 10:15	Verely I say vnto you, Whosoeuer shall not receiue the kingdome of God as a litle childe, he shall not enter therein.
Mark 10:16	And he tooke them vp in his armes, and put his hands vpon them, and blessed them.
Mark 10:17	And when hee was gone out on the way, there came one running, and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Master, what shall I doe, that I may possesse eternall life?
Mark 10:18	Iesus sayde to him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, euen God.
Mark 10:19	Thou knowest the comandements, Thou shalt not commit adulterie. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not steale. Thou shalt not beare false witnesse. Thou shalt hurt no man. Honour thy father and mother.
Mark 10:20	Then he answered, and said to him, Master, all these things I haue obserued from my youth.
Mark 10:21	And Iesus looked vpon him, and loued him, and sayde vnto him, One thing is lacking vnto thee. Go and sell all that thou hast, and giue to the poore, and thou shalt haue treasure in heauen, and come, follow me, and take vp the crosse.
Mark 10:22	But hee was sad at that saying, and went away sorowfull: for he had great possessions.
Mark 10:23	And Iesus looked round about, and sayd vnto his disciples, Howe hardly doe they that haue riches, enter into the kingdome of God!
Mark 10:24	And his disciples were afraide at his words. But Iesus answered againe, and sayd vnto them, Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches, to enter into the kingdome of God!
Mark 10:25	It is easier for a camel to goe through the eye of a needle, then for a riche man to enter into the kingdome of God.
Mark 10:26	And they were much more astonied, saying with themselues, Who then can be saued?
Mark 10:27	But Iesus looked vpon them, and sayd, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God all things are possible.
Mark 10:28	Then Peter began to say vnto him, Loe, we haue forsaken all, and haue folowed thee.
Mark 10:29	Iesus answered, and sayd, Verely I say vnto you, there is no man that hath forsaken house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands for my sake and the Gospels,
Mark 10:30	But he shall receiue an hundred folde, now at this present, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands with persecutions, and in the world to come, eternall life.
Mark 10:31	But many that are first, shall be last, and the last, first.
Mark 10:32	And they were in the way going vp to Hierusalem, and Iesus went before them and they were troubled, and as they followed, they were afraide, and Iesus tooke the twelue againe, and began to tell them what things should come vnto him,
Mark 10:33	Saying, Beholde, we goe vp to Hierusalem, and the Sonne of man shall be deliuered vnto the hie Priests, and to the Scribes, and they shall condemne him to death, and shall deliuer him to the Gentiles.
Mark 10:34	And they shall mocke him, and scourge him, and spit vpon him, and kill him: but the third day he shall rise againe.
Mark 10:35	Then Iames and Iohn the sonnes of Zebedeus came vnto him, saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest doe for vs that we desire.
Mark 10:36	And he sayd vnto them, What would ye I should doe for you?
Mark 10:37	And they said to him, Graunt vnto vs, that we may sit, one at thy right hand, and the other at thy left hand in thy glory.
Mark 10:38	But Iesus sayd vnto them, Ye knowe not what ye aske. Can ye drinke of the cup that I shall drinke of, and be baptized with the baptisme that I shall be baptized with?
Mark 10:39	And they said vnto him, We can. But Iesus sayd vnto them, Ye shall drinke in deede of the cup that I shall drinke of, and be baptized with the baptisme wherewith I shalbe baptized:
Mark 10:40	But to sit at my right hand, and at my left, is not mine to giue, but it shalbe giuen to them for whome it is prepared.
Mark 10:41	And when the ten heard that, they began to disdaine at Iames and Iohn.
Mark 10:42	But Iesus called them vnto him, and sayd to them, Ye know that they which are princes among the Gentiles, haue domination ouer them, and they that be great among them, exercise authoritie ouer them.
Mark 10:43	But it shall not be so among you: but whosoeuer will be great among you, shall be your seruant.
Mark 10:44	And whosoeuer will be chiefe of you, shall be the seruant of all.
Mark 10:45	For euen the Sonne of man came not to be serued, but to serue, and to giue his life for the raunsome of many.
Mark 10:46	Then they came to Iericho: and as he went out of Iericho with his disciples, and a great multitude, Bartimeus the sonne of Timeus, a blinde man, sate by the wayes side, begging.
Mark 10:47	And when hee heard that it was Iesus of Nazareth, he began to crye, and to say, Iesus the Sonne of Dauid, haue mercy on me.
Mark 10:48	And many rebuked him, because he should holde his peace: but hee cryed much more, O Sonne of Dauid, haue mercy on me.
Mark 10:49	Then Iesus stood still, and commanded him to be called: and they called the blind, saying vnto him, Be of good comfort: arise, he calleth thee.
Mark 10:50	So he threwe away his cloke, and rose, and came to Iesus.
Mark 10:51	And Iesus answered, and said vnto him, What wilt thou that I doe vnto thee? And the blinde sayd vnto him, Lord, that I may receiue sight.
Mark 10:52	Then Iesus sayde vnto him, Goe thy way: thy fayth hath saued thee. And by and by, he receiued his sight, and folowed Iesus in the way.
Mark 11:1	And when they came neere to Hierusalem, to Bethphage and Bethania vnto the mount of Oliues, he sent forth two of his disciples,
Mark 11:2	And sayd vnto them, Goe your wayes into that towne that is ouer against you, and assoone as ye shall enter into it, ye shall finde a colte tied, whereon neuer man sate: loose him, and bring him.
Mark 11:3	And if any man say vnto you, Why doe ye this? Say that the Lord hath neede of him, and straightway he will send him hither.
Mark 11:4	And they went their way, and found a colt tyed by the doore without, in a place where two wayes met, and they loosed him.
Mark 11:5	Then certaine of them, that stoode there, sayd vnto them, What doe ye loosing the colt?
Mark 11:6	And they sayde vnto them, as Iesus had commanded them: So they let them goe.
Mark 11:7	And they brought the colte to Iesus, and cast their garments on him, and he sate vpon him.
Mark 11:8	And many spred their garments in the way: other cut downe branches off the trees, and strawed them in the way.
Mark 11:9	And they that went before, and they that folowed, cryed, saying, Hosanna: blessed be hee that commeth in the Name of the Lord.
Mark 11:10	Blessed be the kingdome that commeth in the Name of the Lord of our father Dauid: Hosanna, O thou which art in the highest heauens.
Mark 11:11	So Iesus entred into Hierusalem, and into the Temple: and when he had looked about on all things, and now it was euening, he went forth vnto Bethania with the twelue.
Mark 11:12	And on the morowe when they were come out from Bethania, he was hungry.
Mark 11:13	And seeing a fig tree afarre off, that had leaues, he went to see if he might finde any thing thereon: but when he came vnto it, hee found nothing but leaues: for the time of figges was not yet.
Mark 11:14	Then Iesus answered, and sayd to it, Neuer man eate fruite of thee hereafter while the world standeth: and his disciples heard it.
Mark 11:15	And they came to Hierusalem, and Iesus went into the Temple, and began to cast out them that solde and bought in the Temple, and ouerthrewe the tables of the money changers, and the seates of them that solde doues.
Mark 11:16	Neither would hee suffer that any man should cary a vessell through the Temple.
Mark 11:17	And he taught, saying vnto them, Is it not written, Mine house shalbe called the house of prayer vnto all nations? but you haue made it a denne of theeues.
Mark 11:18	And the Scribes and hie Priestes heard it, and sought howe to destroy him: for they feared him, because the whole multitude was astonied at his doctrine.
Mark 11:19	But when euen was come, Iesus went out of the citie.
Mark 11:20	And in the morning as they iourneyed together, they saw the figge tree dried vp from the rootes.
Mark 11:21	Then Peter remembred, and said vnto him, Master, beholde, the figge tree which thou cursedst, is withered.
Mark 11:22	And Iesus answered, and said vnto them, Haue the faith of God.
Mark 11:23	For verely I say vnto you, that whosoeuer shall say vnto this mountaine, Be thou taken away, and cast into the sea, and shall not wauer in his heart, but shall beleeue that those things which he saieth, shall come to passe, whatsoeuer he saieth, shall be done to him.
Mark 11:24	Therefore I say vnto you, Whatsoeuer ye desire when ye pray, beleeue that ye shall haue it, and it shalbe done vnto you.
Mark 11:25	But when ye shall stand, and pray, forgiue, if ye haue any thing against any man, that your Father also which is in heauen, may forgiue you your trespasses.
Mark 11:26	For if you will not forgiue, your Father which is in heauen, will not pardon you your trespasses.
Mark 11:27	Then they came againe to Hierusalem: and as he walked in the Temple, there came to him ye hie Priestes, and the Scribes, and the Elders,
Mark 11:28	And said vnto him, By what authoritie doest thou these things? and who gaue thee this authoritie, that thou shouldest doe these things?
Mark 11:29	Then Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, I will also aske of you a certaine thing, and answere ye me, and I will tell you by what authoritie I do these things.
Mark 11:30	The baptisme of Iohn, was it from heauen, or of men? answere me.
Mark 11:31	And they thought with themselues, saying, If we shall say, From heauen, he will say, Why then did ye not beleeue him?
Mark 11:32	But if we say, Of men, we feare the people: for all men counted Iohn, that he was a Prophet in deede.
Mark 11:33	Then they answered, and saide vnto Iesus, We cannot tell. And Iesus answered, and said vnto them, Neither will I tell you by what authoritie I doe these things.
Mark 12:1	And he began to speake vnto them in parables, A certaine man planted a vineyard, and copassed it with an hedge, and digged a pit for the winepresse, and built a tower in it, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into a strange countrey.
Mark 12:2	And at the time, he sent to the husbandmen a seruant, that he might receiue of the husbandmen of the fruite of the vineyard.
Mark 12:3	But they tooke him, and beat him, and sent him away emptie.
Mark 12:4	And againe he sent vnto them another seruant, and at him they cast stones, and brake his head, and sent him away shamefully handled.
Mark 12:5	And againe he sent another, and him they slew, and many other, beating some, and killing some.
Mark 12:6	Yet had he one sonne, his deare beloued: him also he sent the last vnto them, saying, They will reuerence my sonne.
Mark 12:7	But ye husbandmen said among themselues, This is the heire: come, let vs kill him, and the inheritance shalbe ours.
Mark 12:8	So they tooke him, and killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard.
Mark 12:9	What shall then the Lord of the vineyard doe? He will come and destroy these husbandmen, and giue the vineyard to others.
Mark 12:10	Haue ye not read so much as this Scripture? The stone which the builders did refuse, is made the head of the corner.
Mark 12:11	This was done of the Lord, and it is marueilous in our eyes.
Mark 12:12	Then they went about to take him, but they feared the people: for they perceiued that he spake that parable against them: therefore they left him, and went their way.
Mark 12:13	And they sent vnto him certaine of the Pharises, and of ye Herodians that they might take him in his talke.
Mark 12:14	And when they came, they saide vnto him, Master, we know that thou art true, and carest for no man: for thou considerest not the person of men, but teachest the way of God truely, Is it lawfull to giue tribute to Cesar, or not?
Mark 12:15	Should we giue it, or should we not giue it? but he knew their hypocrisie, and said vnto them, Why tempt ye me? Bring me a peny, that I may see it.
Mark 12:16	So they brought it, and he said vnto them, Whose is this image and superscription? and they said vnto him, Cesars.
Mark 12:17	Then Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, Giue to Cesar the things that are Cesars, and to God, those that are Gods: and they marueiled at him.
Mark 12:18	Then came the Sadduces vnto him, (which say, there is no resurrection) and they asked him, saying,
Mark 12:19	Master, Moses wrote vnto vs, If any mans brother die, and leaue his wife, and leaue no children, that his brother should take his wife, and rayse vp seede vnto his brother.
Mark 12:20	There were seuen brethren, and the first tooke a wife, and when he died, left no issue.
Mark 12:21	Then the seconde tooke her, and he died, neither did he yet leaue issue, and the third likewise:
Mark 12:22	So those seuen had her, and left no yssue: last of all the wife died also.
Mark 12:23	In the resurrection then, when they shall rise againe, whose wife shall she be of them? for seuen had her to wife.
Mark 12:24	Then Iesus answered, and saide vnto them, Are ye not therefore deceiued, because ye knowe not the Scriptures, neither the power of God?
Mark 12:25	For when they shall rise againe from the dead, neither men marry, nor wiues are married, but are as the Angels which are in heauen.
Mark 12:26	And as touching the dead, that they shall rise againe, haue ye not read in the booke of Moses, howe in the bush God spake vnto him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Iacob?
Mark 12:27	God is not ye God of the dead, but the God of the liuing. Ye are therefore greatly deceiued.
Mark 12:28	Then came one of the Scribes that had heard them disputing together, and perceiuing that he had answered them well, he asked him, Which is the first commandement of all?
Mark 12:29	Iesus answered him, The first of all the commandements is, Heare, Israel, The Lord our God is the onely Lord.
Mark 12:30	Thou shalt therefore loue the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soule, and with all thy minde, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandement.
Mark 12:31	And the second is like, that is, Thou shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe. There is none other commandement greater then these.
Mark 12:32	Then that Scribe said vnto him, Well, Master, thou hast saide the trueth, that there is one God, and that there is none but he,
Mark 12:33	And to loue him with all the heart, and with all the vnderstanding, and with all the soule, and with all the strength, and to loue his neighbour as himselfe, is more then all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.
Mark 12:34	Then when Iesus saw that he answered discreetely, he saide vnto him, Thou art not farre from the kingdome of God. And no man after that durst aske him any question.
Mark 12:35	And Iesus answered and said teaching in the Temple, Howe say the Scribes that Christ is the sonne of Dauid?
Mark 12:36	For Dauid himselfe said by ye holy Ghost, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footestoole.
Mark 12:37	Then Dauid himselfe calleth him Lord: by what meanes is he then his sonne? and much people heard him gladly.
Mark 12:38	Moreouer he saide vnto them in his doctrine, Beware of the Scribes which loue to goe in long robes, and loue salutations in the markets,
Mark 12:39	And the chiefe seates in the Synagogues, and the first roumes at feastes,
Mark 12:40	Which deuoure widowes houses, euen vnder a colour of long prayers. These shall receiue the greater damnation.
Mark 12:41	And as Iesus sate ouer against the treasurie, he beheld how the people cast money into the treasurie, and many rich men cast in much.
Mark 12:42	And there came a certaine poore widowe, and she threw in two mites, which make a quadrin.
Mark 12:43	Then he called vnto him his disciples, and said vnto them, Verely I say vnto you, that this poore widowe hath cast more in, then all they which haue cast into the treasurie.
Mark 12:44	For they all did cast in of their superfluitie: but she of her pouertie did cast in all that she had, euen all her liuing.
Mark 13:1	And as he went out of the Temple, one of his disciples said vnto him, Master, see what maner stones, and what maner buildings are here.
Mark 13:2	Then Iesus answered and saide vnto him, Seest thou these great buildings? there shall not be left one stone vpon a stone, that shall not be throwen downe.
Mark 13:3	And as he sate on the mount of Oliues, ouer against the Temple, Peter, and Iames, and Iohn, and Andrew asked him secretly,
Mark 13:4	Tell vs, when shall these things be? and what shalbe the signe when all these things shalbe fulfilled?
Mark 13:5	And Iesus answered them, and began to say, Take heede lest any man deceiue you.
Mark 13:6	For many shall come in my Name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceiue many.
Mark 13:7	Furthermore when ye shall heare, of warres, and rumours of warres, be ye not troubled: for such things must needes be: but the end shall not be yet.
Mark 13:8	For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdome against kingdome, and there shalbe earthquakes in diuers quarters, and there shalbe famine and troubles: these are the beginnings of sorowes.
Mark 13:9	But take ye heede to your selues: for they shall deliuer you vp to the Councils, and to the Synagogues: ye shalbe beaten, and brought before rulers and Kings for my sake, for a testimoniall vnto them.
Mark 13:10	And the Gospel must first be published among all nations.
Mark 13:11	But when they leade you, and deliuer you vp, be not carefull before hand, neither studie what ye shall say: but what is giuen you at the same time, that speake: for it is not ye that speake, but the holy Ghost.
Mark 13:12	Yea, and the brother shall deliuer the brother to death, and the father the sonne, and the children shall rise against their parents, and shall cause them to die.
Mark 13:13	And ye shall be hated of all men for my Names sake: but whosoeuer shall endure vnto the end, he shalbe saued.
Mark 13:14	Moreouer, when ye shall see the abomination of desolation (spoken of by Daniel the Prophet) set where it ought not, (let him that readeth, consider it) then let them that be in Iudea, flee into the mountaines,
Mark 13:15	And let him that is vpon the house, not come downe into the house, neither enter therein, to fetch any thing out of his house.
Mark 13:16	And let him that is in the fielde, not turne backe againe to take his garment.
Mark 13:17	Then wo shalbe to the that are with child, and to them that giue sucke in those dayes.
Mark 13:18	Pray therefore that your flight be not in the winter.
Mark 13:19	For those dayes shalbe such tribulation, as was not from the beginning of ye creation which God created vnto this time, neither shalbe.
Mark 13:20	And except that the Lord had shortened those dayes, no flesh shoulde be saued: but for the elects sake, which he hath chosen, he hath shortened those dayes.
Mark 13:21	Then if any man say to you, Loe, here is Christ, or, lo, he is there, beleeue it not.
Mark 13:22	For false Christes shall rise, and false prophets, and shall shewe signes and wonders, to deceiue if it were possible the very elect.
Mark 13:23	But take ye heede: beholde, I haue shewed you all things before.
Mark 13:24	Moreouer in those dayes, after that tribulation, the sunne shall waxe darke, and ye moone shall not giue her light,
Mark 13:25	And the starres of heauen shall fall: and the powers which are in heauen, shall shake.
Mark 13:26	And then shall they see the Sonne of man comming in ye cloudes, with great power and glory.
Mark 13:27	And he shall then send his Angels, and shall gather together his elect from the foure windes, and from the vtmost part of the earth to the vtmost part of heauen.
Mark 13:28	Nowe learne a parable of the figge tree. When her bough is yet tender, and it bringeth foorth leaues, ye knowe that sommer is neere.
Mark 13:29	So in like maner, when ye see these things come to passe, knowe that the kingdom of God is neere, euen at the doores.
Mark 13:30	Verely I say vnto you, that this generation shall not passe, till all these things be done.
Mark 13:31	Heauen and earth shall passe away, but my woordes shall not passe away.
Mark 13:32	But of that day and houre knoweth no man, no, not the Angels which are in heauen, neither the Sonne himselfe, but the Father.
Mark 13:33	Take heede: watch, and praie: for yee knowe not when the time is.
Mark 13:34	For the Sonne of man is as a man going into a strange countrey, and leaueth his house, and giueth authoritie to his seruaunts, and to euery man his woorke, and commandeth the porter to watch.
Mark 13:35	Watch ye therefore, (for ye know not whe ye master of the house will come, at eue, or at midnight, at the cocke crowing, or in the dawning,)
Mark 13:36	Least if he come suddenly, he should finde you sleeping.
Mark 13:37	And those things that I say vnto you, I say vnto all men, Watch.
Mark 14:1	And two daies after followed the feast of the Passeouer, and of vnleauened bread: and the hie Priests, and Scribes sought how they might take him by craft, and put him to death.
Mark 14:2	But they sayde, Not in the feast day, least there be any tumult among the people.
Mark 14:3	And when hee was in Bethania in the house of Simon the leper, as he sate at table, there came a woman hauing a boxe of oyntment of spikenarde, very costly, and shee brake the boxe, and powred it on his head.
Mark 14:4	Therefore some disdained among themselues, and sayde, To what ende is this waste of oyntment?
Mark 14:5	For it might haue bene sold for more then three hundreth pence, and bene giuen vnto the poore, and they murmured against her.
Mark 14:6	But Iesus saide, Let her alone: why trouble yee her? shee hath wrought a good worke on me.
Mark 14:7	For yee haue the poore with you alwaies, and when yee will yee may doe them good, but me yee shall not haue alwaies.
Mark 14:8	She hath done that she coulde: she came afore hand to anoynt my body to the burying.
Mark 14:9	Verely I say vnto you, wheresoeuer this Gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done, shalbe spoken of in remembrance of her.
Mark 14:10	Then Iudas Iscariot, one of the twelue, went away vnto the hie Priestes, to betray him vnto them.
Mark 14:11	And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised that they woulde giue him monie: therefore he sought howe he might conueniently betraie him.
Mark 14:12	Nowe the first day of vnleauened bread, when they sacrificed the Passeouer, his disciples sayde vnto him, Where wilt thou that we goe and prepare, that thou mayest eate the Passeouer?
Mark 14:13	Then hee sent foorth two of his disciples, and sayde vnto them, Goe yee into the citie, and there shall a man meete you bearing a pitcher of water: follow him.
Mark 14:14	And whithersoeuer he goeth in, say yee to the good man of the house, The Master sayeth, Where is the lodging where I shall eate the Passeouer with my disciples?
Mark 14:15	And he wil shewe you an vpper chamber which is large, trimmed and prepared: there make it readie for vs.
Mark 14:16	So his disciples went foorth, and came to the citie, and found as he had said vnto them, and made readie the Passeouer.
Mark 14:17	And at euen he came with the twelue.
Mark 14:18	And as they sate at table and did eate, Iesus said, Verely I say vnto you, that one of you shall betray me, which eateth with me.
Mark 14:19	Then they began to be sorowful and to say to him one by one, Is it I? And another, Is it I?
Mark 14:20	And he answered and sayde vnto them, It is one of the twelue that dippeth with mee in the platter.
Mark 14:21	Truely the Sonne of man goeth his way, as it is written of him: but woe bee to that man, by whome the Sonne of man is betrayed: it had beene good for that man, if hee had neuer beene borne.
Mark 14:22	And as they did eate, Iesus tooke the bread, and when hee had giuen thankes, he brake it and gaue it to them, and sayde, Take, eate, this is my bodie.
Mark 14:23	Also he tooke the cuppe, and when he had giuen thankes, gaue it to them: and they all dranke of it.
Mark 14:24	And he saide vnto them, This is my blood of that newe Testament, which is shed for many.
Mark 14:25	Verely I say vnto you, I wil drinke no more of the fruit of ye vine vntill that day, that I drinke it newe in the kingdome of God.
Mark 14:26	And when they had sung a Psalme, they went out to the mount of Oliues.
Mark 14:27	Then Iesus said vnto them, Al ye shall be offended by mee this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepheard, and the sheepe shall be scattered.
Mark 14:28	But after that I am risen, I will goe into Galile before you.
Mark 14:29	And Peter saide vnto him, Although all men should be offended at thee, yet would not I.
Mark 14:30	Then Iesus saide vnto him, Verely I say vnto thee, this day, euen in this night, before the cocke crowe twise, thou shalt denie me thrise.
Mark 14:31	But he saide more earnestly. If I shoulde die with thee, I will not denie thee: likewise also saide they all.
Mark 14:32	After, they came into a place named Gethsemane: then hee saide to his disciples, Sit yee here, till I haue praied.
Mark 14:33	And hee tooke with him Peter, and Iames, and Iohn, and hee began to be troubled, and in great heauinesse,
Mark 14:34	And saide vnto them, My soule is very heauie, euen vnto the death: tarie here, and watch.
Mark 14:35	So he went forward a litle, and fell downe on the ground, and praied, that if it were possible, that houre might passe from him.
Mark 14:36	And he saide, Abba, Father, all things are possible vnto thee: take away this cup from me: neuertheles not that I will, but that thou wilt, be done.
Mark 14:37	Then hee came, and founde them sleeping, and said to Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? couldest not thou watche one houre?
Mark 14:38	Watch ye, and pray, that ye enter not into tentation: the spirite in deede is ready, but the flesh is weake.
Mark 14:39	And againe hee went away, and praied, and spake the same wordes.
Mark 14:40	And he returned, and founde them a sleepe againe: for their eyes were heauie: neither knewe they what they should answere him.
Mark 14:41	And he came the third time, and said vnto them, Sleepe henceforth, and take your rest: it is ynough: the houre is come: beholde, the Sonne of man is deliuered into the hands of sinners.
Mark 14:42	Rise vp: let vs go: loe, he that betraieth me, is at hand.
Mark 14:43	And immediatly while hee yet spake, came Iudas that was one of the twelue, and with him a great multitude with swordes and staues from the hie Priests, and Scribes, and Elders.
Mark 14:44	And he that betraied him, had giuen them a token, saying, Whomsoeuer I shall kisse, he it is: take him and leade him away safely.
Mark 14:45	And assoone as hee was come, hee went straightway to him, and saide, Haile Master, and kissed him.
Mark 14:46	Then they laide their handes on him, and tooke him.
Mark 14:47	And one of them that stoode by, drewe out a sword, and smote a seruant of the hie Priest, and cut off his eare.
Mark 14:48	And Iesus answered and saide to them, Ye be come out as against a thiefe with swordes, and with staues, to take me.
Mark 14:49	I was daily with you teaching in the Temple, and yee tooke me not: but this is done that the Scriptures should be fulfilled.
Mark 14:50	Then they all forsooke him, and fled.
Mark 14:51	And there followed him a certaine yong man, clothed in linnen vpon his bare bodie, and the yong men caught him.
Mark 14:52	But he left his linnen cloth, and fled from them naked.
Mark 14:53	So they led Iesus away to the hie Priest, and to him came together all the hie Priestes, and the Elders, and the Scribes.
Mark 14:54	And Peter folowed him afarre off, euen into the hall of the hie Priest, and sate with the seruants, and warmed himselfe at the fire.
Mark 14:55	And the hie Priests, and all the Councill sought for witnesse against Iesus, to put him to death, but found none.
Mark 14:56	For many bare false witnesse against him, but their witnesse agreed not together.
Mark 14:57	Then there arose certaine, and bare false witnesse against him, saying,
Mark 14:58	We hearde him say, I will destroy this Temple made with hands, and within three daies I will builde another, made without hands.
Mark 14:59	But their witnesse yet agreed not together.
Mark 14:60	Then the hie Priest stoode vp amongst them, and asked Iesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? what is the matter that these beare witnesse against thee?
Mark 14:61	But hee helde his peace, and answered nothing. Againe the hie Priest asked him, and sayde vnto him, Art thou that Christ the Sonne of the Blessed?
Mark 14:62	And Iesus said, I am he, and yee shall see the Sonne of man sitte at the right hande of the power of God, and come in the clouds of heauen.
Mark 14:63	Then the hie Priest rent his clothes, and sayd, What haue we any more neede of witnesses?
Mark 14:64	Ye haue heard the blasphemie: what thinke yee? And they all condemned him to be worthie of death.
Mark 14:65	And some began to spit at him, and to couer his face, and to beate him with fists, and to say vnto him, Prophesie. And the sergeants smote him with their roddes.
Mark 14:66	And as Peter was beneath in the hal, there came one of the maides of the hie Priest.
Mark 14:67	And when shee sawe Peter warming him selfe, shee looked on him, and sayde, Thou wast also with Iesus of Nazareth.
Mark 14:68	But he denied it, saying, I knowe him not, neither wot I what thou saiest. Then he went out into the porche, and the cocke crewe.
Mark 14:69	Then a maid sawe him againe, and bega to say to them that stood by, This is one of them.
Mark 14:70	But hee denied it againe: and anon after, they that stoode by, sayde againe to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for thou art of Galile, and thy speach is like.
Mark 14:71	And he began to curse, and sweare, saying, I knowe not this man of whom ye speake.
Mark 14:72	Then the seconde time the cocke crewe, and Peter remembred the woorde that Iesus had saide vnto him, Before the cocke crowe twise, thou shalt denie me thrise, and waying that with himselfe, he wept.
Mark 15:1	And anon in the dawning, the hie Priestes helde a Councill with the Elders, and the Scribes, and the whole Council, and bound Iesus, and led him away, and deliuered him to Pilate.
Mark 15:2	Then Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Iewes? And hee answered, and sayde vnto him, Thou sayest it.
Mark 15:3	And the hie Priestes accused him of many things.
Mark 15:4	Wherefore Pilate asked him againe, saying, Answerest thou nothing? beholde howe many things they witnesse against thee.
Mark 15:5	But Iesus answered no more at all, so that Pilate marueiled.
Mark 15:6	Nowe at the feast, Pilate did deliuer a prisoner vnto them, whomesoeuer they woulde desire.
Mark 15:7	Then there was one named Barabbas, which was bounde with his fellowes, that had made insurrection, who in the insurrection had committed murder.
Mark 15:8	And the people cried aloude, and began to desire that he woulde doe as he had euer done vnto them.
Mark 15:9	Then Pilate answered them, and said, Will ye that I let loose vnto you the King of ye Iewes?
Mark 15:10	For he knewe that the hie Priestes had deliuered him of enuie.
Mark 15:11	But the high Priestes had moued the people to desire that he would rather deliuer Barabbas vnto them.
Mark 15:12	And Pilate answered, and said againe vnto them, What will ye then that I doe with him, whom ye call the King of the Iewes?
Mark 15:13	And they cried againe, Crucifie him.
Mark 15:14	Then Pilate said vnto them, But what euill hath he done? And they cryed the more feruently, Crucifie him.
Mark 15:15	So Pilate willing to content the people, loosed them Barabbas, and deliuered Iesus, when he had scourged him, that he might be crucified.
Mark 15:16	Then the souldiers led him away into the hall, which is the common hall, and called together the whole band,
Mark 15:17	And clad him with purple, and platted a crowne of thornes, and put it about his head,
Mark 15:18	And began to salute him, saying, Haile, King of the Iewes.
Mark 15:19	And they smote him on the head with a reede, and spat vpon him, and bowed the knees, and did him reuerence.
Mark 15:20	And whe they had mocked him, they tooke the purple off him, and put his owne clothes on him, and led him out to crucifie him.
Mark 15:21	And they compelled one that passed by, called Simon of Cyrene (which came out of the countrey, and was father of Alexander and Rufus) to beare his crosse.
Mark 15:22	And they brought him to a place named Golgotha, which is by interpretation, the place of dead mens skulles.
Mark 15:23	And they gaue him to drinke wine mingled with myrrhe: but he receiued it not.
Mark 15:24	And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments, casting lots for them, what euery man should haue.
Mark 15:25	And it was the third houre, when they crucified him.
Mark 15:26	And ye title of his cause was written aboue, THAT KING OF THE JEWES.
Mark 15:27	They crucified also with him two theeues, the one on ye right hand, and the other on his left.
Mark 15:28	Thus the Scripture was fulfilled, which sayth, And he was counted among the wicked.
Mark 15:29	And they that went by, railed on him, wagging their heads, and saying, Hey, thou that destroyest the Temple, and buildest it in three dayes,
Mark 15:30	Saue thy selfe, and come downe from the crosse.
Mark 15:31	Likewise also euen the hie Priests mocking, said among themselues with the Scribes, He saued other men, himselfe he cannot saue.
Mark 15:32	Let Christ the King of Israel nowe come downe from the crosse, that we may see, and beleeue. They also that were crucified with him, reuiled him.
Mark 15:33	Nowe when the sixt houre was come, darkenesse arose ouer all the land vntill the ninth houre.
Mark 15:34	And at the ninth houre Iesus cryed with a loude voyce, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lamma-sabachthani? which is by interpretation, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?
Mark 15:35	And some of them that stoode by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elias.
Mark 15:36	And one ranne, and filled a spondge full of vineger, and put it on a reede, and gaue him to drinke, saying, Let him alone: let vs see if Elias will come, and take him downe.
Mark 15:37	And Iesus cryed with a loude voyce, and gaue vp the ghost.
Mark 15:38	And the vaile of the Temple was rent in twaine, from the toppe to the bottome.
Mark 15:39	Nowe when the Centurion, which stoode ouer against him, sawe that he thus crying gaue vp the ghost, he saide, Truely this man was the Sonne of God.
Mark 15:40	There were also women, which beheld afarre off, among whom was Marie Magdalene, and Marie (the mother of Iames the lesse, and of Ioses) and Salome,
Mark 15:41	Which also when he was in Galile, folowed him, and ministred vnto him, and many other women which came vp with him vnto Hierusalem.
Mark 15:42	And nowe when the night was come (because it was the day of the preparation that is before the Sabbath)
Mark 15:43	Ioseph of Arimathea, an honorable counsellour, which also looked for the kingdome of God, came, and went in boldly vnto Pilate, and asked the body of Iesus.
Mark 15:44	And Pilate marueiled, if he were already dead, and called vnto him the Centurion, and asked of him whether he had bene any while dead.
Mark 15:45	And when he knewe the trueth of the Centurion, he gaue the body to Ioseph:
Mark 15:46	Who bought a linnen cloth, and tooke him downe, and wrapped him in the linnen cloth, and laide him in a tombe that was hewen out of a rocke, and rolled a stone vnto the doore of the sepulchre:
Mark 15:47	And Marie Magdalene, and Marie Ioses mother, behelde where he should be layed.
Mark 16:1	And when the Sabbath day was past, Marie Magdalene, and Marie the mother of Iames, and Salome, bought sweete oyntments, that they might come, and anoynt him.
Mark 16:2	Therefore early in the morning, the first day of the weeke, they came vnto the sepulchre, when the Sunne was nowe risen.
Mark 16:3	And they saide one to another, Who shall rolle vs away the stone from the doore of the sepulchre?
Mark 16:4	And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away (for it was a very great one)
Mark 16:5	So they went into the sepulchre, and saw a yong man sitting at the right side, clothed in a long white robe: and they were sore troubled.
Mark 16:6	But he said vnto them, Be not so troubled: ye seeke Iesus of Nazareth, which hath bene crucified: he is risen, he is not here: behold the place where they put him.
Mark 16:7	But goe your way, and tell his disciples, and Peter, that he will goe before you into Galile: there shall ye see him, as he said vnto you.
Mark 16:8	And they went out quickly, and fled from the sepulchre: for they trembled, and were amased: neither said they any thing to any man: for they were afraide.
Mark 16:9	And when Iesus was risen againe, early the first day of the weeke, he appeared first to Marie Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seuen deuils:
Mark 16:10	And shee went and tolde them that had bene with him, which mourned and wept.
Mark 16:11	And when they heard that he was aliue, and had appeared to her, they beleeued it not.
Mark 16:12	After that, he appeared vnto two of them in an other forme, as they walked and went into the countrey.
Mark 16:13	And they went, and told it to the remnant, neither beleeued they them.
Mark 16:14	Finally, he appeared vnto the eleuen as they sate together, and reproched them for their vnbeliefe and hardnesse of heart, because they beleeued not them which had seene him, being risen vp againe.
Mark 16:15	And he saide vnto them, Goe ye into all the worlde, and preach the Gospel to euery creature.
Mark 16:16	He that shall beleeue and be baptized, shalbe saued: but he that will not beleeue, shalbe damned.
Mark 16:17	And these tokens shall folowe them that beleeue, In my Name they shall cast out deuils, and shall speake with newe tongues,
Mark 16:18	And shall take away serpents, and if they shall drinke any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them: they shall lay their handes on the sicke, and they shall recouer.
Mark 16:19	So after ye Lord had spoken vnto them, he was receiued into heauen, and sate at the right hand of God.
Mark 16:20	And they went foorth, and preached euery where. And the Lord wrought with them, and confirmed the worde with signes that folowed. Amen.

===== BOOK: Nahum =====
Nahum 1:1	The burden of Nineueh. The booke of the vision of Nahum the Elkeshite.
Nahum 1:2	God is ielous, and the Lord reuengeth: the Lord reuengeth: euen the Lord of anger, the Lord will take vengeance on his aduersaries, and he reserueth wrath for his enemies.
Nahum 1:3	The Lord is slow to anger, but he is great in power, and will not surely cleare the wicked: the Lord hath his way in ye whirlewind, and in the storme, and the cloudes are the dust of his feete.
Nahum 1:4	He rebuketh the sea, and dryeth it, and he dryeth vp all the riuers: Bashan is wasted and Carmel, and the floure of Lebanon is wasted.
Nahum 1:5	The mountaines tremble for him, and the hilles melt, and the earth is burnt at his sight, yea, the worlde, and all that dwell therein.
Nahum 1:6	Who can stande before his wrath? or who can abide in the fiercenesse of his wrath? his wrath is powred out like fire, and the rockes are broken by him.
Nahum 1:7	The Lord is good and as a strong hold in the day of trouble, and he knoweth them that trust in him.
Nahum 1:8	But passing ouer as with a flood, he will vtterly destroy the place thereof, and darknesse shall pursue his enemies.
Nahum 1:9	What doe ye imagine against the Lord? he wil make an vtter destruction: affliction shall not rise vp the seconde time.
Nahum 1:10	For he shall come as vnto thornes folden one in another, and as vnto drunkards in their drunkennesse: they shall be deuoured as stubble fully dryed.
Nahum 1:11	There commeth one out of thee that imagineth euill against the Lord, euen a wicked counsellour.
Nahum 1:12	Thus saith the Lord, Though they be quiet, and also many, yet thus shall they be cut off when he shall passe by: though I haue afflicted thee, I will afflict thee no more.
Nahum 1:13	For nowe I will breake his yoke from thee, and will burst thy bonds in sunder.
Nahum 1:14	And the Lord hath giuen a commandement concerning thee, that no more of thy name be sowen: out of the house of thy gods will I cut off the grauen, and the molten image: I will make it thy graue for thee, for thou art vile.
Nahum 1:15	Beholde vpon the mountaines the feete of him that declareth, and publisheth peace: O Iudah, keepe thy solemne feastes, perfourme thy vowes: for the wicked shall no more passe thorowe thee: he is vtterly cut off.
Nahum 2:1	The destroyer is come before thy face: keepe the munition: looke to the way: make thy loynes strong: increase thy strength mightily.
Nahum 2:2	For the Lord hath turned away the glorie of Iaakob, as the glorie of Israel: for the emptiers haue emptied them out, and marred their vine branches.
Nahum 2:3	The shield of his mightie men is made red: the valiant men are in skarlet: the charets shalbe as in the fire and flames in the day of his preparation, and the firre trees shall tremble.
Nahum 2:4	The charets shall rage in the streetes: they shall runne to and from in the hie wayes: they shall seeme like lampes: they shall shoote like the lightning.
Nahum 2:5	He shall remember his strong men: they shall stumble as they goe: they shall make haste to the walles thereof, and the defence shall bee prepared.
Nahum 2:6	The gates of the riuers shalbe opened, and the palace shall melt.
Nahum 2:7	And Huzzab the Queene shalbe led away captiue, and her maides shall leade her as with the voyce of doues, smiting vpon their breastes.
Nahum 2:8	But Nineueh is of olde like a poole of water: yet they shall flee away. Stande, stande, shall they crie: but none shall looke backe.
Nahum 2:9	Spoyle ye the siluer, spoyle the golde: for there is none ende of the store, and glorie of all the pleasant vessels.
Nahum 2:10	She is emptie and voyde and waste, and the heart melteth, and the knees smite together, and sorowe is in all loynes, and the faces of the all gather blackenesse.
Nahum 2:11	Where is the dwelling of the lyons, and the pasture of the lyons whelpes? where the lyon, and the lionesse walked, and the lyons whelpe, and none made them afrayde.
Nahum 2:12	The lyon did teare in pieces ynough for his whelpes, and woryed for his lyonesse, and filled his holes with praye, and his dennes with, spoyle.
Nahum 2:13	Beholde, I come vnto thee, sayeth the Lord of hostes, and I will burne her charets in the smoke, and the sworde shall deuoure thy yong lyons, and I will cut off thy spoyle from the earth, and the voyce of thy messengers shall no more be heard.
Nahum 3:1	O bloody citie, it is all full of lyes, and robberie: the pray departeth not:
Nahum 3:2	The noyse of a whippe, and the noyse of the mouing of the wheeles, and the beating of the horses, and the leaping of the charets.
Nahum 3:3	The horseman lifteth vp both the bright sword, and the glittering speare, and a multitude is slaine, and the dead bodyes are many: there is none ende of their corpses: they stumble vpon their corpses,
Nahum 3:4	Because of the multitude of the fornications of the harlot that is beautifull, and is a mistresse of witchcraft, and selleth the people thorow her whoredome, and the nations thorowe her witchcrafts.
Nahum 3:5	Beholde, I come vpon thee, saith the Lord of hostes, and will discouer thy skirtes vpon thy face, and will shewe the nations thy filthines, and the kingdomes thy shame.
Nahum 3:6	And I will cast filth vpon thee, and make thee vile, and will set thee as a gasing stocke.
Nahum 3:7	And it shall come to passe, that al they that looke vpon thee, shall flee from thee, and say, Nineueh is destroyed, who will haue pitie vpon her? where shall I seeke comforters for thee?
Nahum 3:8	Art thou better then No, which was ful of people? that lay in the riuers, and had the waters round about it? whose ditche was the sea, and her wall was from the sea?
Nahum 3:9	Ethiopia and Egypt were her strength, and there was none ende: Put and Lubim were her helpers.
Nahum 3:10	Yet was she caried awaye, and went into captiuitie: her young children also were dashed in pieces at the head of all the streetes: and they cast lottes for her noble men, and al her myghtie men were bound in chaines.
Nahum 3:11	Also thou shalt bee drunken: thou shalt hide thy selfe, and shalt seeke helpe because of the enemie.
Nahum 3:12	All thy strong cities shall be like figtrees with the first ripe figs: for if they be shaken, they fall into the mouth of the eater.
Nahum 3:13	Beholde, thy people within thee are women: the gates of thy land shalbe opened vnto thine enemies, and ye fire shall deuoure thy barres.
Nahum 3:14	Drawe thee waters for the siege: fortifie thy strong holdes: go into the clay, and temper the morter: make strong bricke.
Nahum 3:15	There shall ye fire deuoure thee: the sword shall cut thee off: it shall eate thee vp like the locustes, though thou bee multiplied like the locustes, and multiplyed like the grashopper.
Nahum 3:16	Thou hast multiplied thy marchantes aboue the starres of heauen: the locust spoileth and flyeth away.
Nahum 3:17	Thy princes are as the grashoppers, and thy captaines as the great grashoppers which remaine in the hedges in the colde day: but when the sunne ariseth, they flee away and their place is not knowen where they are.
Nahum 3:18	Thy shepheardes doe sleepe, O King of Asshur: thy strong men lie downe: thy people is scattered vpon the mountaines, and no man gathereth them.
Nahum 3:19	There is no healing of thy wounde: thy plague is grieuous: all that heare the brute of thee, shall clap the handes ouer thee: for vpon whome hath not thy malice passed continually?

===== BOOK: Nehemiah =====
Nehemiah 1:1	The words of Nehemiah the sonne of Hachaliah. In ye moneth Chisleu, in the twentieth yeere, as I was in the palace of Shushan,
Nehemiah 1:2	Came Hanam, one of my brethren, he and the men of Iudah, and I asked them concerning the Iewes that were deliuered, which were of the residue of the captiuitie, and concerning Ierusalem.
Nehemiah 1:3	And they sayde vnto me, The residue that are left of the captiuitie there in the prouince, are in great affliction and in reproche, and the wall of Ierusalem is broken downe, and the gates thereof are burnt with fire.
Nehemiah 1:4	And when I heard these wordes, I sate downe and wept, and mourned certeine dayes, and I fasted and prayed before the God of heauen,
Nehemiah 1:5	And sayde, O Lord God of heauen, the great and terrible God, that keepeth couenant and mercy for them that loue him, and obserue his commandements,
Nehemiah 1:6	I pray thee, let thine eares be attet, and thine eies open, to heare the praier of thy seruat, which I pray before thee dayly, day and night for ye childre of Israel thy seruats, and confesse the sinnes of the children of Israel, which we haue sinned against thee, both I and my fathers house haue sinned:
Nehemiah 1:7	We haue grieuously sinned against thee, and haue not kept the commandements, nor the statutes, nor the iudgements, which thou commandedst thy seruant Moses.
Nehemiah 1:8	I beseeche thee, remember the worde that thou commandedst thy seruant Moses, saying, Ye wil transgresse, and I will scatter you abroade among the people.
Nehemiah 1:9	But if ye turne vnto me, and keepe my commandements, and doe them, though your scattering were to the vttermost part of the heauen, yet will I gather you from thence, and will bring you vnto the place that I haue chosen to place my Name there.
Nehemiah 1:10	Now these are thy seruants and thy people, whome thou hast redeemed by thy great power, and by thy mightie hand.
Nehemiah 1:11	O Lord, I beseech thee, let thine eare now hearken to the prayer of thy seruant, and to the prayer of thy seruants, who desire to feare thy Name, and I pray thee, cause thy seruant to prosper this day, and giue him fauour in the presence of this man: for I was the Kings butler.
Nehemiah 2:1	Nowe in the moneth Nisan in the twentieth yere of king Artahshashte, the wine stoode before him, and I tooke vp the wine, and gaue it vnto the King. nowe I was not before time sad in his presence.
Nehemiah 2:2	And the king said vnto me, Why is thy coutenance sad, seeing thou art not sicke? this is nothing, but sorow of heart. Then was I sore afrayd,
Nehemiah 2:3	And I said to the King, God saue the King for euer: why should not my countenance be sad, when the citie and house of the sepulchres of my fathers lieth waste, and the gates thereof are deuoured with fire?
Nehemiah 2:4	And the King said vnto me, For what thing doest thou require? Then I prayed to the God of heauen,
Nehemiah 2:5	And sayde vnto the King, If it please the King, and if thy seruant haue found fauour in thy sight, I desire that thou wouldest send me to Iudah vnto the city of the sepulchres of my fathers, that I may buyld it.
Nehemiah 2:6	And the King sayd vnto me, (the Queene also sitting by him) How long shall thy iourney be? and when wilt thou come againe? So it pleased the King, and he sent me, and I set him a time.
Nehemiah 2:7	After I saide vnto the King, If it please the King, let them giue mee letters to the captaines beyond the Riuer, that they may conuay me ouer, till I come into Iudah,
Nehemiah 2:8	And letters vnto Asaph the keeper of the Kings parke, that hee may giue me timber to buylde the gates of the palace (which apperteined to the house) and for the walles of the citie, and for the house that I shall enter into. And the King gaue me according to the good hand of my God vpon me.
Nehemiah 2:9	Then came I to the captaines beyonde the Riuer, and gaue them the Kings letters. And the King had sent captaines of the armie and horsemen with me.
Nehemiah 2:10	But Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah a seruant an Ammonite heard it, and it grieued them sore, that there was come a man which sought the wealth of the children of Israel.
Nehemiah 2:11	So I came to Ierusalem, and was there three dayes.
Nehemiah 2:12	And I rose in the night, I, and a fewe men with me: for I told no man, what God had put in mine heart to do at Ierusalem, and there was not a beast with me, saue the beast whereon I rode.
Nehemiah 2:13	And I went out by night by the gate of the valley, and came before the dragon well, and to the dung porte, and vewed the walles of Ierusalem, howe they were broken downe, and the portes thereof deuoured with the fire.
Nehemiah 2:14	Then I went foorth vnto the gate of the fountaine, and to the Kings fishpoole, and there was no rowme for the beast that was vnder me to passe.
Nehemiah 2:15	Then went I vp in ye night by the brooke, and viewed the wall, and turned backe, and comming backe, I entred by the gate of the valley and returned.
Nehemiah 2:16	And the rulers knewe not whither I was gone, nor what I did, neither did I as yet tell it vnto the Iewes, nor to the Priestes, nor to the noble men, nor to the rulers, nor to the rest that laboured in the worke.
Nehemiah 2:17	Afterward I said vnto them, Ye see the miserie that we are in, how Ierusalem lyeth waste, and the gates thereof are burnt with fire: come and let vs buylde the wall of Ierusalem, that we be no more a reproche.
Nehemiah 2:18	Then I tolde them of the hande of my God, (which was good ouer me) and also of the Kings wordes that he had spoken vnto me. And they sayd, Let vs rise, and buyld. So they strengthened their hand to good.
Nehemiah 2:19	But when Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the seruant an Ammonite, and Geshem the Arabian heard it, they mocked vs and despised vs, and said, What a thing is this that ye doe? Will ye rebell against the King?
Nehemiah 2:20	Then answered I them, and sayd to them, The God of heauen, he will prosper vs, and we his seruants will rise vp and buylde: but as for you, ye haue no portion nor right, nor memoriall in Ierusalem.
Nehemiah 3:1	Then arose Eliashib the hie Priest with his brethren the Priestes, and they buylt the sheepegate: they repayred it, and set vp the doores thereof: euen vnto the tower of Meah repayred they it, and vnto the tower of Hananeel.
Nehemiah 3:2	And next vnto him buylded the men of Iericho, and beside him Zaccur the sonne of Imri.
Nehemiah 3:3	But the fish port did the sonnes of Senaah buylde, which also layde the beames thereof, and set on the doores thereof, the lockes thereof, and the barres thereof.
Nehemiah 3:4	And next vnto them fortified Merimoth, the sonne of Vrijah, the sonne of Hakkoz: and next vnto them fortified Meshullam, the sonne of Berechiah, the sonne of Meshezabeel: and next vnto them fortified Zadok, the sonne of Baana:
Nehemiah 3:5	And next vnto them fortified the Tekoites: but the great men of them put not their neckes to the worke of their lordes.
Nehemiah 3:6	And the gate of the olde fishpoole fortified Iehoiada the sonne of Paseah, and Meshullam the sonne of Besodaiah: they laid the beames thereof, and set on the doores thereof, and the lockes thereof, and the barres thereof.
Nehemiah 3:7	Next vnto them also fortified Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Iadon the Meronothite, men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah, vnto the throne of the Duke, which was beyond the Riuer.
Nehemiah 3:8	Next vnto him fortified Vzziel the sonne of Harhohiah of the golde smithes: next vnto him also fortified Hananiah, the sonne of Harakkahim, and they repayred Ierusalem vnto the broad wall.
Nehemiah 3:9	Also next vnto them fortified Rephaiah, the sonne of Hur, the ruler of the halfe part of Ierusalem.
Nehemiah 3:10	And next vnto him fortified Iedaiah the sonne of Harumaph, euen ouer against his house: and next vnto him fortified Hattush, the sonne of Hashabniah.
Nehemiah 3:11	Malchiiah the sonne of Harim, and Hashub the sonne of Pahath Moab fortified the seconde porcion, and the tower of the fornaces.
Nehemiah 3:12	Next vnto him also fortified Shallum, the sonne of Halloesh, the ruler of the halfe part of Ierusalem, he, and his daughters.
Nehemiah 3:13	The valley gate fortified Hanum, and the inhabitants of Zanuah: they buylt it, and set on the doores thereof, the lockes thereof, and the barres thereof, euen a thousand cubites on the wall vnto the dung porte.
Nehemiah 3:14	But the dung port fortified Malchiah, the sonne of Rechab, the ruler of the fourth part of Beth-haccarem: he built it, and set on the doores thereof, the lockes thereof, and the barres thereof.
Nehemiah 3:15	But the gate of the fountaine fortified Shallun, the sonne of Col-hozeh, the ruler of the fourth part of Mizpah: he builded it, and couered it, and set on the doores thereof, the lockes thereof, and the barres thereof, and the wall vnto the fishpoole of Shelah by the Kings garden, and vnto the steppes that goe downe from the citie of Dauid.
Nehemiah 3:16	After him fortified Nehemiah the sonne of Azbuk, the ruler of ye halfe part of Beth-zur, vntill the otherside ouer against the sepulchres of Dauid, and to the fishpoole that was repaired, and vnto the house of the mightie.
Nehemiah 3:17	After him fortified the Leuites, Rehum the sonne of Bani, and next vnto him fortified Hashabiah the ruler of the halfe part of Keilah in his quarter.
Nehemiah 3:18	After him fortified their brethren: Bauai, the sonne of Henadad the ruler of the halfe part of Keilah:
Nehemiah 3:19	And next vnto him fortified Ezer, the sonne of Ieshua the ruler of Mizpah, the other portion ouer against the going vp to the corner of the armour.
Nehemiah 3:20	After him was earnest Baruch the sonne of Zacchai, and fortified another portion from the corner vnto the doore of the house of Eliashib the hie Priest.
Nehemiah 3:21	After him fortified Merimoth, the sonne of Vriiah, the sonne of Hakkoz, another portion from the doore of the house of Eliashib, euen as long as the house of Eliashib extended.
Nehemiah 3:22	After him also fortified the Priests, the men of the playne.
Nehemiah 3:23	After them fortified Beniamin, and Hasshub ouer against their house: after him fortified Azariah, the sonne of Maaseiah, the sonne of Ananiah, by his house.
Nehemiah 3:24	After him fortified Binnui, the sonne of Henadad another portion, from the house of Azariah vnto the turning and vnto the corner.
Nehemiah 3:25	Palal, the sonne of Vzai, from ouer against the corner, and the high tower, that lieth out from the Kings house, which is beside the court of the prison. After him, Pedaiah, the sonne of Parosh.
Nehemiah 3:26	And the Nethinims they dwelt in ye fortresse vnto the place ouer against the water gate, Eastwarde, and to the tower that lyeth out.
Nehemiah 3:27	After him fortified the Tekoites another portion ouer against the great tower, that lyeth out, euen vnto the wall of the fortresse.
Nehemiah 3:28	From aboue the horsegate forth fortified the Priests, euery one ouer against his house.
Nehemiah 3:29	After them fortified Zadok the sonne of Immer ouer against his house: and after him fortified Shemaiah, the sonne of Shechadiah the keeper of the East gate.
Nehemiah 3:30	After him fortified Hananiah, the sonne of Shelemiah, and Hanun, the sonne of Zalaph, the sixt, another portion after him fortified Meshullam, the sonne of Berechiah, ouer against his chamber.
Nehemiah 3:31	After him fortified Malchiah the goldesmiths sonne, vntil the house of the Nethinims, and of ye marchants ouer against the gate Miphkad, and to the chamber in the corner.
Nehemiah 3:32	And betweene the chamber of the corner vnto the sheepegate fortified the goldesmithes and the marchantes.
Nehemiah 4:1	But when Sanballat heard that we builded the wall, then was he wroth and sore grieued, and mocked the Iewes,
Nehemiah 4:2	And sayde before his brethren and the armie of Samaria, thus he sayde, What doe these weake Iewes? wil they fortifie them selues? wil they sacrifice? will they finish it in a day? will they make the stones whole againe out of the heapes of dust, seeing they are burnt?
Nehemiah 4:3	And Tobiah the Ammonite was beside him, and said, Although they buylde, yet if a foxe goe vp, he shall euen breake downe their stonie wall.
Nehemiah 4:4	Heare, O our God (for we are despised) and turne their shame vpon their owne head, and giue them vnto a pray in the lande of their captiuitie,
Nehemiah 4:5	And couer not their iniquitie, neither let their sinne be put out in thy presence: for they haue prouoked vs before the builders.
Nehemiah 4:6	So we built the wall, and all the wall was ioyned vnto the halfe thereof, and the heart of the people was to worke.
Nehemiah 4:7	But when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and the Arabians, and the Ammonites, and the Ashdodims heard that the walles of Ierusalem were repayred, (for the breaches began to be stopped) then they were very wroth,
Nehemiah 4:8	And conspired all together to come and to fight against Ierusalem, and to hinder them.
Nehemiah 4:9	The we prayed vnto our God, and set watchmen by them, day and night, because of them.
Nehemiah 4:10	And Iudah said, The strength of the bearers is weakened, and there is much earth, so that we are not able to build the wall.
Nehemiah 4:11	Also our aduersaries had sayde, They shall not knowe, neither see, till we come into the middes of them and slay them, and cause the worke to cease.
Nehemiah 4:12	But when the Iewes (which dwelt beside them) came, they told vs ten times, From all places whence ye shall returne, they wil be vpon vs.
Nehemiah 4:13	Therefore set I in the lower places behind the wall vpon the toppes of the stones, and placed the people by their families, with their swordes, their speares and their bowes.
Nehemiah 4:14	Then I behelde, and rose vp, and said vnto the Princes, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the people, Be not afrayde of them: remember the great Lord, and fearefull, and fight for your brethren, your sonnes, and your daughters, your wiues, and your houses.
Nehemiah 4:15	And when our enemies heard that it was knowen vnto vs, then God brought their counsell to nought, and we turned all againe to the wall, euery one vnto his worke.
Nehemiah 4:16	And from that day, halfe of the yong men did the labour, and the other halfe part of them helde the speares, and shieldes, and bowes, and habergins: and the rulers stoode behinde all the house of Iudah.
Nehemiah 4:17	They that buylded on the wall, and they that bare burdens, and they that laded, did the worke with one hand, and with the other helde the sworde.
Nehemiah 4:18	For euery one of the buylders had his sworde girded on his loynes, and so buylded: and he that blewe the trumpet, was beside me.
Nehemiah 4:19	Then saide I vnto the Princes, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the people, The worke is great and large, and we are separated vpon the wall, one farre from another.
Nehemiah 4:20	In what place therefore ye heare the sound of the trumpet, resort ye thither vnto vs: our God shall fight for vs.
Nehemiah 4:21	So we laboured in the worke, and halfe of them helde the speares, from the appearing of the morning, till the starres came foorth.
Nehemiah 4:22	And at the same time said I vnto the people, Let euery one with his seruant lodge within Ierusalem, that they may be a watch for vs in the night, and labour in the day.
Nehemiah 4:23	So neither I, nor my brethren, nor my seruants, nor the men of the warde, (which followed me) none of vs did put off our clothes, saue euery one put them off for washing.
Nehemiah 5:1	Nowe there was a great crie of the people, and of their wiues against their brethren the Iewes.
Nehemiah 5:2	For there were that said, We, our sonnes and our daughters are many, therefore we take vp corne, that we may eate and liue.
Nehemiah 5:3	And there were that saide, We must gage our landes, and our vineyardes, and our houses, and take vp corne for the famine.
Nehemiah 5:4	There were also that said, We haue borowed money for the Kings tribute vpon our landes and our vineyardes.
Nehemiah 5:5	And nowe our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren, and our sonnes as their sonnes: and lo, we bring into subiection our sonnes and our daughters, as seruants, and there be of our daughters nowe in subiection, and there is no power in our handes: for other men haue our landes and our vineyardes.
Nehemiah 5:6	Then was I very angrie when I heard their crie and these wordes.
Nehemiah 5:7	And I thought in my minde, and I rebuked the princes, and the rulers, and saide vnto them, You lay burthens euery one vpon his brethren: and I set a great assemblie against them,
Nehemiah 5:8	And I said vnto them, We (according to our abilitie) haue redeemed our brethren the Iewes, which were solde vnto the heathen: and will you sell your brethren againe, or shall they be solde vnto vs? Then helde they their peace, and could not answere.
Nehemiah 5:9	I said also, That which ye do, is not good. Ought ye not to walke in the feare of our God, for the reproche of the heathen our enemies?
Nehemiah 5:10	For euen I, my brethren, and my seruants doe lende them money and corne: I pray you, let vs leaue off this burden.
Nehemiah 5:11	Restore, I pray you, vnto them this day their landes, their vineyardes, their oliues, and their houses, and remit the hundreth part of the siluer and of the corne, of the wine, and of the oyle that ye exact of them.
Nehemiah 5:12	Then said they, We will restore it, and will not require it of them: we will doe as thou hast said. Then I called the Priestes, and caused them to sweare, that they shoulde doe according to this promise.
Nehemiah 5:13	So I shooke my lappe, and said, So let God shake out euery man that wil not perfourme this promise from his house, and from his labour: euen thus let him be shaken out, and emptied. And all the Cogregation said, Amen, and praised the Lord: and the people did according to this promise.
Nehemiah 5:14	And from the time that the King gaue me charge to be gouernour in the lande of Iudah, from the twentieth yeere, euen vnto the two and thirtieth yeere of King Artahshashte, that is, twelue yeere, I, and my brethren haue not eaten the bread of the gouernour.
Nehemiah 5:15	For the former gouernours that were before me, had bene chargeable vnto the people, and had taken of them bread and wine, besides fourtie shekels of siluer: yea, and their seruants bare rule ouer the people: but so did not I, because of the feare of God.
Nehemiah 5:16	But rather I fortified a portion in the worke of this wall, and we bought no lande, and all my seruants came thither together vnto the worke.
Nehemiah 5:17	Moreouer there were at my table an hundreth and fiftie of the Iewes, and rulers, which came vnto vs from among the heathen that are about vs.
Nehemiah 5:18	And there was prepared daily an oxe, and sixe chosen sheepe, and birdes were prepared for me, and within ten dayes wine for all in abundance. Yet for all this I required not the bread of the gouernour: for the bondage was grieuous vnto this people.
Nehemiah 5:19	Remember me, O my God, in goodnesse, according to all that I haue done for this people.
Nehemiah 6:1	And when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and Geshem the Arabian, and the rest of our enemies heard that I had built the wall, and that there were no more breaches therein, (though at that time I had not set vp the doores vpon the gates)
Nehemiah 6:2	Then sent Sanballat and Geshem vnto me, saying, Come thou that we may meete together in the villages in the plaine of Ono: and they thought to doe me euill.
Nehemiah 6:3	Therefore I sent messengers vnto them, saying, I haue a great worke to doe, and I can not come downe: why should the worke cease, whiles I leaue it, and come downe to you?
Nehemiah 6:4	Yet they sent vnto me foure times after this sort. And I answered them after the same maner.
Nehemiah 6:5	Then sent Sanballat his seruant after this sorte vnto me the fift time, with an open letter in his hand,
Nehemiah 6:6	Wherein was written, It is reported among the heathen, and Gashmu hath sayd it, that thou and the Iewes thinke to rebel, for the which cause thou buildest the wall and thou wilt bee their King according to these wordes.
Nehemiah 6:7	Thou hast also ordeyned the Prophets to preach of thee at Ierusalem, saying, There is a King in Iudah: and nowe according to these wordes it shall come to the Kings eares: come now therefore, and let vs take counsell together.
Nehemiah 6:8	Then I sent vnto him, saying, It is not done according to these wordes that thou sayest: for thou feynest them of thine owne heart.
Nehemiah 6:9	For all they afrayed vs, saying, Their handes shalbe weakened from the worke, and it shall not be done: nowe therefore incourage thou me.
Nehemiah 6:10	And I came to the house of Shemaiah the sonne of Delaiah the sonne of Mehetabeel, and he was shut vp, and he said, Let vs come together into the house of God in the middes of the Temple, and shut the doores of the Temple: for they will come to slay thee: yea, in the night will they come to kill thee.
Nehemiah 6:11	Then I said, Should such a man as I, flee? Who is he, being as I am, that would go into the Temple to liue? I will not goe in.
Nehemiah 6:12	And loe, I perceiued, that God had not sent him, but that he pronounced this prophecie against me: for Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him.
Nehemiah 6:13	Therefore was he hyred, that I might be afrayde, and doe thus, and sinne, and that they might haue an euill report that they might reproche me.
Nehemiah 6:14	My God, remember thou Tobiah, and Sanballat according vnto these their workes, and Noadiah the Prophetesse also, and the rest of the Prophets that would haue put me in feare.
Nehemiah 6:15	Notwithstanding the wall was finished on the fiue and twentieth day of Elul, in two and fiftie dayes.
Nehemiah 6:16	And when all our enemies heard thereof, euen all the heathen that were about vs, they were afraid, and their courage failed them: for they knew, that this worke was wrought by our God.
Nehemiah 6:17	And in these dayes were there many of the princes of Iudah, whose letters went vnto Tobiah, and those of Tobiah came vnto them.
Nehemiah 6:18	For there were many in Iudah, that were sworne vnto him: for he was the sonne in lawe of Shechaniah, the sonne of Arah: and his sonne Iehonathan had the daughter of Meshullam, the sonne of Berechiah.
Nehemiah 6:19	Yea, they spake in his praise before me, and tolde him my wordes, and Tobiah sent letters to put me in feare.
Nehemiah 7:1	Nowe when the wall was builded, and I had set vp the doores, and the porters, and the singers and the Leuites were appointed,
Nehemiah 7:2	Then I commanded my brother Hanani and Hananiah the prince of the palace in Ierusalem (for he was doubtlesse a faithfull man, and feared God aboue many)
Nehemiah 7:3	And I saide vnto them, Let not the gates of Ierusalem be opened, vntill the heate of the sunne: and while they stande by, let them shut the doores, and make them fast: and I appointed wardes of the inhabitants of Ierusalem, euery one in his warde, and euery one ouer against his house.
Nehemiah 7:4	Nowe the citie was large and great, but the people were few therein, and the houses were not buylded.
Nehemiah 7:5	And my God put into mine heart, and I gathered the princes, and the rulers, and the people, to count their genealogies: and I found a booke of the genealogie of them, which came vp at the first, and found written therein,
Nehemiah 7:6	These are the sonnes of the prouince that came vp from the captiuitie that was caried away (whome Nebuchadnezzar King of Babel had caryed away) and they returned to Ierusalem and to Iudah, euery one vnto his citie.
Nehemiah 7:7	They which came with Zerubbabel, Ieshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Biguai, Nehum, Baanah. This is the nomber of the men of the people of Israel.
Nehemiah 7:8	The sonnes of Parosh, two thousande an hundreth seuentie and two.
Nehemiah 7:9	The sonnes of Shephatiah, three hundreth seuentie and two.
Nehemiah 7:10	The sonnes of Arah, sixe hundreth fiftie and two.
Nehemiah 7:11	The sonnes of Pahath Moab of ye sonnes of Ieshua, and Ioab, two thousand, eight hundreth and eighteene.
Nehemiah 7:12	The sonnes of Elam, a thousand, two hundreth fiftie and foure.
Nehemiah 7:13	The sonnes of Zattu, eight hundreth and fiue and fourtie.
Nehemiah 7:14	The sonnes of Zacchai, seuen hundreth and three score.
Nehemiah 7:15	The sonnes of Binnui, sixe hundreth and eight and fourtie.
Nehemiah 7:16	The sonnes of Bebai, sixe hundreth and eight and twentie.
Nehemiah 7:17	The sonnes of Azgad, two thousand, three hundreth and two and twentie.
Nehemiah 7:18	The sonnes of Adonikam, sixe hundreth three score and seuen.
Nehemiah 7:19	The sonnes of Biguai, two thousand three score and seuen.
Nehemiah 7:20	The sonnes of Adin, sixe hundreth, and fiue and fiftie.
Nehemiah 7:21	The sonnes of Ater of Hizkiah, ninetie and eight.
Nehemiah 7:22	The sonnes of Hashum, three hundreth and eight and twentie.
Nehemiah 7:23	The sonnes of Bezai, three hundreth and foure and twentie.
Nehemiah 7:24	The sonnes of Hariph, an hundreth and twelue.
Nehemiah 7:25	The sonnes of Gibeon, ninetie and fiue.
Nehemiah 7:26	The men of Beth-lehem and Netophah, an hundreth foure score and eight.
Nehemiah 7:27	The men of Anathoth, an hundreth and eight and twentie.
Nehemiah 7:28	The me of Beth-azmaueth, two and fourty.
Nehemiah 7:29	The men of Kiriath-iearim, Chephirah and Beeroth, seuen hundreth, and three and fourtie.
Nehemiah 7:30	The men of Ramah and Gaba, sixe hundreth and one and twentie.
Nehemiah 7:31	The men of Michmas, an hundreth and two and twentie.
Nehemiah 7:32	The men of Beth-el and Ai, an hundreth and three and twentie.
Nehemiah 7:33	The men of the other Nebo, two and fifty.
Nehemiah 7:34	The sonnes of the other Elam, a thousand, two hundreth and foure and fiftie.
Nehemiah 7:35	The sonnes of Harim, three hundreth and twentie.
Nehemiah 7:36	The sonnes of Iericho, three hundreth and fiue and fourtie.
Nehemiah 7:37	The sonnes of Lod-hadid and Ono, seuen hundreth and one and twentie.
Nehemiah 7:38	The sonnes of Senaah, three thousand, nine hundreth and thirtie.
Nehemiah 7:39	The Priestes: the sonnes of Iedaiah of the house of Ieshua, nine hundreth seuentie and three.
Nehemiah 7:40	The sonnes of Immer, a thousand and two and fiftie.
Nehemiah 7:41	The sonnes of Pashur, a thousande, two hundreth and seuen and fourtie.
Nehemiah 7:42	The sonnes of Harim, a thousande and seuenteene.
Nehemiah 7:43	The Leuites: the sonnes of Ieshua of Kadmiel, and of the sonnes of Hodiuah, seuentie and foure.
Nehemiah 7:44	The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundreth, and eight and fourtie.
Nehemiah 7:45	The porters: the sonnes of Shallum, the sonnes of Ater, the sonnes of Talmon, the sonnes of Akkub, the sonnes of Hatita, the sonnes of Shobai, an hundreth and eight and thirtie.
Nehemiah 7:46	The Nethinims: the sonnes of Ziha, the sonnes of Hashupha, the sonnes of Tabaoth,
Nehemiah 7:47	The sonnes of Keros, the sonnes of Sia, the sonnes of Padon,
Nehemiah 7:48	The sonnes of Lebana, the sonnes of Hagaba, the sonnes of Shalmai,
Nehemiah 7:49	The sonnes of Hanan, the sonnes of Giddel, the sonnes of Gahar,
Nehemiah 7:50	The sonnes of Reaiah, the sonnes of Rezin, the sonnes of Nekoda,
Nehemiah 7:51	The sonnes of Gazzam, ye sonnes of Vzza, the sonnes of Paseah,
Nehemiah 7:52	The sonnes of Besai, the sonnes of Meunim, the sonnes of Nephishesim,
Nehemiah 7:53	The sonnes of Bakbuk, the sonnes of Hakupha, the sonnes of Harhur,
Nehemiah 7:54	The sonnes of Bazlith, the sonnes of Mehida, the sonnes of Harsha,
Nehemiah 7:55	The sonnes of Barkos, the sonnes of Sissera, the sonnes of Tamah,
Nehemiah 7:56	The sonnes of Neziah, the sonnes of Hatipha,
Nehemiah 7:57	The sonnes of Salomons seruantes, the sonnes of Sotai, the sonnes of Sophereth, ye sonnes of Perida,
Nehemiah 7:58	The sonnes of Iaala, the sonnes of Darkon, the sonnes of Giddel,
Nehemiah 7:59	The sonnes of Shephatiah, the sonnes of Hattil, the sonnes of Pochereth of Zebaim, the sonnes of Amon.
Nehemiah 7:60	All the Nethinims, and the sonnes of Salomons seruantes were three hundreth, ninetie and two.
Nehemiah 7:61	And these came vp from Tel-melah, Tel-haresha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer: but they could not shewe their fathers house, nor their seede, or if they were of Israel.
Nehemiah 7:62	The sonnes of Delaiah: the sonnes of Tobiah, the sonnes of Nekoda, six hundreth and two and fourtie.
Nehemiah 7:63	And of the Priestes: the sonnes of Habaiah, the sonnes of Hakkoz, the sonnes of Barzillai, which tooke one of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite to wife, and was named after their name.
Nehemiah 7:64	These sought their writing of the genealogies, but it was not founde: therefore they were put from the Priesthood.
Nehemiah 7:65	And the Tirshatha sayd vnto them, that they should not eate of the most holy, till there rose vp a Priest with Vrim and Thummim.
Nehemiah 7:66	All the Congregation together was two and fourtie thousand, three hundreth and threescore,
Nehemiah 7:67	Besides their seruantes and their maydes, which were seuen thousand, three hundreth and seuen and thirtie: and they had two hundreth and fiue and fourtie singing men and singing women.
Nehemiah 7:68	Their horses were seuen hundreth and sixe and thirtie, and their mules two hundreth and fiue and fourtie.
Nehemiah 7:69	The camels foure hundreth and fiue and thirtie, and sixe thousande, seuen hundreth and twentie asses.
Nehemiah 7:70	And certaine of the chiefe fathers gaue vnto the worke. The Tirshatha gaue to the treasure, a thousand drammes of golde, fiftie basins, fiue hundreth and thirtie Priests garments.
Nehemiah 7:71	And some of the chiefe fathers gaue vnto the treasure of the worke, twentie thousand drams of golde, and two thousande and two hundreth pieces of siluer.
Nehemiah 7:72	And the rest of the people gaue twentie thousand drammes of golde, and two thousande pieces of siluer, and three score and seuen Priestes garments.
Nehemiah 7:73	And the Priestes, and Leuites, and the porters and the singers and the rest of the people and the Nethinims, and all Israel dwelt in their cities: and when the seuenth moneth came, the children of Israel were in their cities.
Nehemiah 8:1	And all the people assembled themselues together, in the streete that was before the watergate, and they spake vnto Ezra the Scribe, that hee would bring the booke of ye Law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel.
Nehemiah 8:2	And Ezra the Priest brought the Lawe before the Congregation both of men and women, and of all that coulde heare and vnderstand it, in the first day of the seuenth moneth,
Nehemiah 8:3	And he read therein in the streete that was before the watergate (from the morning vntill the midday) before men and women, and them that vnderstoode it, and the eares of all the people hearkened vnto the booke of the Lawe.
Nehemiah 8:4	And Ezra the Scribe stoode vpon a pulpit of wood which he had made for the preaching, and beside him stood Mattithiah, and Shema, and Ananiah, and Vriiah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah on his right hande, and on his left hand Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchiah, and Hashum, and Hashbadana, Zechariah, and Meshullam.
Nehemiah 8:5	And Ezra opened the booke before all the people: for hee was aboue all the people: and when he opened it, all the people stoode vp.
Nehemiah 8:6	And Ezra praysed the Lord the great God, and all the people answered, Amen, Amen, with lifting vp their handes: and they bowed themselues, and worshipped the Lord with their faces toward the grounde.
Nehemiah 8:7	Also Ieshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Iamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodiiah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Iozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the Leuites caused the people to vnderstand the lawe, and the people stood in their place.
Nehemiah 8:8	And they read in the booke of the Lawe of God distinctly, and gaue the sense, and caused them to vnderstand the reading.
Nehemiah 8:9	Then Nehemiah (which is Tirshatha) and Ezra the Priest and scribe, and the Leuites that instructed the people, saide vnto all the people, This day is holie vnto ye Lord your God: mourne not, neither weepe: for all the people wept, whe they heard the words of the Lawe.
Nehemiah 8:10	He saide also vnto the, Go, and eate of the fat, and drinke the sweete, and send part vnto them, for whome none is prepared: for this day is holie vnto our Lord: be ye not sorie therefore: for the ioy of the Lord is your strength.
Nehemiah 8:11	And the Leuites made silence throughout all the people, saying, Holde your peace: for the day is holy, be not sad therefore.
Nehemiah 8:12	Then all the people went to eate and to drinke, and to send away part, and to make great ioy, because they had vnderstand the wordes that they had taught them.
Nehemiah 8:13	And on the second day the chiefe fathers of all the people, the Priests and the Leuites were gathered vnto Ezra the scribe, that he also might instruct them in the wordes of the Lawe.
Nehemiah 8:14	And they found written in the Law, (that the Lord had commanded by Moses) that the children of Israel should dwel in boothes in the feast of the seuenth moneth,
Nehemiah 8:15	And that they shoulde cause it to bee declared and proclaimed in all their cities, and in Ierusalem, saying, Go forth vnto the mount, and bring oliue branches, and pine branches, and branches of myrtus, and palme branches, and branches of thicke trees, to make boothes, as it is written.
Nehemiah 8:16	So the people went foorth and brought them, and made them boothes, euerie one vpon the roofe of his house, and in their courtes, and in the courtes of the house of God, and in the streete by the watergate, and in the streete of the gate of Ephraim.
Nehemiah 8:17	And all the Congregation of them that were come againe out of the captiuitie made boothes, and sate vnder the boothes: for since the time of Ieshua the sonne of Nun vnto this day, had not the children of Israel done so, and there was very great ioy.
Nehemiah 8:18	And he read in the booke of the Lawe of God euery day, from the first day vnto the last day. and they kept the feast seuen dayes, and on the eight day a solemne assemblie, according vnto the maner.
Nehemiah 9:1	In the foure and twentieth day of this moneth the children of Israel were assembled with fasting, and with sackecloth, and earth vpon them.
Nehemiah 9:2	(And they that were of the seede of Israel were separated from all the strangers) and they stoode and confessed their sinnes and the iniquities of their fathers.
Nehemiah 9:3	And they stood vp in their place and read in the booke of the Lawe of the Lord their GOD foure times on the day, and they confessed and worshipped the Lord their God foure times.
Nehemiah 9:4	Then stoode vp vpon the staires of the Leuites Ieshua, and Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani, and cryed with a loud voyce vnto the Lord their God.
Nehemiah 9:5	And the Leuites said, euen Ieshua and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabniah, Sherebiah, Hodiiah, Shebaniah and Pethahiah, Stande vp, and praise the Lord your God for euer, and euer, and let them praise thy glorious Name, O God, which excelleth aboue all thankesgiuing and praise.
Nehemiah 9:6	Thou art Lord alone: thou hast made heauen, and the heauen of all heauens, with all their hoste, the earth, and all things that are therein, the seas, and al that are in them, and thou preseruest them all, and the host of the heauen worshippeth thee.
Nehemiah 9:7	Thou art, O Lord, the God, that hast chosen Abram, and broughtest him out of Vr in Caldea, and madest his name Abraham,
Nehemiah 9:8	And foundest his heart faithful before thee, and madest a couenant with him, to giue vnto his seede the lande of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, and Perizzites, and Iebusites, and Girgashites, and hast performed thy wordes, because thou art iust.
Nehemiah 9:9	Thou hast also considered the affliction of our fathers in Egypt, and heard their cry by the red Sea,
Nehemiah 9:10	And shewed tokens and wonders vpon Pharaoh, and on all his seruants, and on all the people of his land: for thou knewest that they dealt proudely against them: therefore thou madest thee a Name, as appeareth this day.
Nehemiah 9:11	For thou didest breake vp the Sea before them, and they went through the middes of the Sea on dry lande: and those that pursued them, hast thou cast into the bottomes as a stone, in the mightie waters:
Nehemiah 9:12	And leddest them in the day with a pillar of a cloude, and in the night with a pillar of fire to giue them light in the way that they went.
Nehemiah 9:13	Thou camest downe also vpon mount Sinai, and spakest vnto them from heauen, and gauest them right iudgements, and true lawes, ordinances and good commandements,
Nehemiah 9:14	And declaredst vnto them thine holy Sabbath, and commandedst them precepts, and ordinances, and lawes, by the hande of Moses thy seruant:
Nehemiah 9:15	And gauest them bread from heauen for their hunger, and broughtest forth water for them out of the rocke for their thirst: and promisedst them that they shoulde goe in, and take possession of the land: for the which thou haddest lift vp thine hand for to giue them.
Nehemiah 9:16	But they and our fathers behaued them selues proudely, and hardened their neck, so that they hearkened not vnto thy commandements,
Nehemiah 9:17	But refused to obey, and would not remember thy marueilous works that thou haddest done for them, but hardened their neckes, and had in their heads to returne to their bondage by their rebellion: but thou, O God of mercies, gratious and full of compassion, of long suffring and of great mercie, yet forsookest them not.
Nehemiah 9:18	Moreouer, when they made them a molten calfe (and said, This is thy God that brought thee vp out of the land of Egypt) and committed great blasphemies,
Nehemiah 9:19	Yet thou for thy great mercies forsookest them not in the wildernesse: the pillar of the cloude departed not from them by day to leade them the way, neither the pillar of fire by night, to shew them light, and the way whereby they should goe.
Nehemiah 9:20	Thou gauest also thy good Spirite to instruct them, and withheldest not thy MAN from their mouth, and gauest them water for their thirst.
Nehemiah 9:21	Thou didest also feede them fourtie yeres in ye wildernes: they lacked nothing: their clothes waxed not old, and their feete swelled not.
Nehemiah 9:22	And thou gauest them kingdomes and people, and scatteredst them into corners: so they possessed the land of Sihon and the land of ye King of Heshbon, and the land of Og King of Bashan.
Nehemiah 9:23	And thou diddest multiplie their children, like the starres of the heauen, and broughtest them into the lande, whereof thou haddest spoken vnto their fathers, that they should goe, and possesse it.
Nehemiah 9:24	So the children went in, and possessed the lande, and thou subduedst before them the inhabitants of the lande, euen the Canaanites, and gauest them into their handes, with their Kings and the people of the lande, that they might do with them what they would.
Nehemiah 9:25	And they tooke their strong cities and the fat lande, and possessed houses, full of all goods, cisternes digged out, vineyardes, and oliues, and trees for foode in abundance, and they did eate, and were filled, and became fat, and liued in pleasure through thy great goodnesse.
Nehemiah 9:26	Yet they were disobedient, and rebelled against thee, and cast thy Lawe behinde their backes, and slewe thy Prophets (which protested among them to turne them vnto thee) and committed great blasphemies.
Nehemiah 9:27	Therefore thou deliueredst them into the hande of their enemies that vexed them: yet in the time of their affliction, when they cryed vnto thee, thou heardest them from the heauen, and through thy great mercies thou gauest them sauiours, who saued them out of the hande of their aduersaries.
Nehemiah 9:28	But when they had rest, they returned to doe euill before thee: therefore leftest thou them in the hande of their enemies, so that they had the dominion ouer them, yet when they conuerted and cryed vnto thee, thou heardest them from heauen, and deliueredst them according to thy great mercies many times,
Nehemiah 9:29	And protestedst among them that thou mightest bring them againe vnto thy Lawe: but they behaued them selues proudely, and hearkened not vnto thy commandements, but sinned against thy iudgements (which a man should doe and liue in them) and pulled away the shoulder, and were stiffenecked, and woulde not heare.
Nehemiah 9:30	Yet thou diddest forbeare them many yeeres, and protestedst among them by thy Spirite, euen by the hande of thy Prophets, but they woulde not heare: therefore gauest thou them into the hande of the people of the lands.
Nehemiah 9:31	Yet for thy great mercies thou hast not consumed them, neither forsaken them: for thou art a gracious and mercifull God.
Nehemiah 9:32	Nowe therefore our God, thou great God, mightie and terrible, that keepest couenant and mercie, let not all the affliction that hath come vnto vs, seeme a litle before thee, that is, to our Kings, to our princes, and to our Priests, and to our Prophets, and to our fathers, and to all thy people since the time of the Kings of Asshur vnto this day.
Nehemiah 9:33	Surely thou art iust in all that is come vpon vs: for thou hast dealt truely, but we haue done wickedly.
Nehemiah 9:34	And our kings and our princes, our Priests and our fathers haue not done thy Lawe, nor regarded thy commandements nor thy protestations, wherewith thou hast protested among them.
Nehemiah 9:35	And they haue not serued thee in their kingdome, and in thy great goodnesse that thou shewedst vnto them, and in the large and fat lande which thou diddest set before them, and haue not conuerted from their euill workes.
Nehemiah 9:36	Beholde, we are seruants this day, and the lande that thou gauest vnto our fathers, to eate the fruite thereof, and the goodnesse thereof, beholde, we are seruants therein.
Nehemiah 9:37	And it yeeldeth much fruit vnto the kings whom thou hast set ouer vs, because of our sinnes: and they haue dominion ouer our bodyes and ouer our cattell at their pleasure, and we are in great affliction.
Nehemiah 9:38	Now because of all this we make a sure couenant, and write it, and our princes, our Leuites and our Priestes seale vnto it.
Nehemiah 10:1	Now they that sealed were Nehemiah the Tirshatha the sonne of Hachaliah, and Zidkiiah,
Nehemiah 10:2	Seraiah, Azariah, Ieremiah,
Nehemiah 10:3	Pashur, Amariah, Malchiah,
Nehemiah 10:4	Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch,
Nehemiah 10:5	Harim, Merimoth, Obadiah,
Nehemiah 10:6	Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch,
Nehemiah 10:7	Meshullam, Abiiah, Miamin,
Nehemiah 10:8	Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah: these are the Priestes.
Nehemiah 10:9	And the Leuites: Ieshua the sonne of Azaniah, Binnui, of the sonnes of Henadad, Kadmiel.
Nehemiah 10:10	And their brethren Shebaniah, Hodiiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanun,
Nehemiah 10:11	Micha, Rehob, Hashabiah,
Nehemiah 10:12	Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah,
Nehemiah 10:13	Hodiah, Bani, Beninu.
Nehemiah 10:14	The chiefe of the people were Parosh, Pahath Moab, Elam, Zattu, Bani,
Nehemiah 10:15	Bunni, Azgad, Bebai,
Nehemiah 10:16	Adoniah, Biguai, Adin,
Nehemiah 10:17	Ater, Hizkiiah, Azzur,
Nehemiah 10:18	Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai,
Nehemiah 10:19	Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai,
Nehemiah 10:20	Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir,
Nehemiah 10:21	Meshezabeel, Zadok, Iaddua,
Nehemiah 10:22	Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah,
Nehemiah 10:23	Hoshea, Hananiah, Hashub,
Nehemiah 10:24	Hallohesh, Pileha, Shobek,
Nehemiah 10:25	Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,
Nehemiah 10:26	And Ahiiah, Hanan, Anan,
Nehemiah 10:27	Malluch, Harim, Baanah.
Nehemiah 10:28	And the rest of the people, the Priestes, the Leuites, the porters, the singers, the Nethinims, and all that were separated from the people of the landes vnto the Lawe of God, their wiues, their sonnes, and their daughters, all that coulde vnderstande.
Nehemiah 10:29	The chiefe of them receiued it for their brethren, and they came to the curse and to the othe to walke in Gods Law, which was giuen by Moses the seruant of God, to obserue and doe all the commandements of the Lord our God, and his iudgements and his statutes:
Nehemiah 10:30	And that we would not giue our daughters to the people of the lande, neither take their daughters for our sonnes.
Nehemiah 10:31	And if the people of the lande brought ware on the Sabbath, or any vitailes to sell, that we would not take it of them on the Sabbath and on the holy dayes: and that we would let the seuenth yeere be free, and the debtes of euery person.
Nehemiah 10:32	And we made statutes for our selues to giue by the yeere the thirde part of a shekel for the seruice of the house of our God,
Nehemiah 10:33	For the shewbread, and for the daily offring, and for the daily burnt offring, the Sabbaths, the newe moones, for the solemne feastes, and for the thinges that were sanctified, and for the sinne offrings to make an atonement for Israel, and for all the worke of the house of our God.
Nehemiah 10:34	We cast also lottes for the offering of the wood, euen the Priestes, the Leuites and the people to bring it into the house of our God, by the house of our fathers, yeerely at the times appointed, to burne it vpon the altar of the Lord our God, as it is written in the Lawe,
Nehemiah 10:35	And to bring the first fruites of our land, and the first of all the fruites of all trees, yeere by yeere, into the house of the Lord,
Nehemiah 10:36	And the first borne of our sonnes, and of our cattel, as it is written in the Lawe, and the first borne of our bullockes and of our sheepe, to bring it into the house of our God, vnto ye Priests that minister in the house of our God,
Nehemiah 10:37	And that we should bring the first fruite of our dough, and our offrings, and the fruite of euery tree, of wine and of oyle, vnto the Priests, to the chambers of the house of our God: and the tithes of our lande vnto the Leuites, that the Leuites might haue the tithes in all the cities of our trauaile.
Nehemiah 10:38	And the Priest, the sonne of Aaron shall be with the Leuites, when ye Leuites take tithes, and the Leuites shall bring vp the tenth parte of the tithes vnto the house of our God, vnto the chambers of the treasure house.
Nehemiah 10:39	For the children of Israel, and the children of Leui shall bring vp the offerings of the corne, of the wine, and of the oyle, vnto the chabers: and there shalbe the vessels of the Sanctuarie, and the Priestes that minister, and the porters, and the fingers, and we will not forsake the house of our God.
Nehemiah 11:1	And the rulers of the people dwelt in Ierusalem: the other people also cast lottes, to bring one out of ten to dwel in Ierusalem the holy citie, and nine partes to be in the cities.
Nehemiah 11:2	And the people thanked all the men that were willing to dwell in Ierusalem.
Nehemiah 11:3	These now are the chiefe of the prouince, that dwelt in Ierusalem, but in the cities of Iudah, euery one dwelt in his owne possession in their cities of Israel, the Priestes and the Leuites, and the Nethinims, and the sonnes of Salomons seruants.
Nehemiah 11:4	And in Ierusalem dwelt certaine of the children of Iudah, and of the children of Beniamin. Of the sonnes of Iudah, Athaiah, the sonne of Vziiah, the sonne of Zechariah, the sonne of Amariah, the sonne of Shephatiah, the sonne of Mahaleel, of the sonnes of Perez,
Nehemiah 11:5	And Maaseiah the sonne of Baruch, the sonne of Col Hozeh, the sonne of Hazaiah, the sonne of Adaiah, the sonne of Ioiarib, the sonne of Zechariah, the sonne of Shiloni.
Nehemiah 11:6	All the sonnes of Perez that dwelt at Ierusalem, were foure hundreth, three score and eight valiant men.
Nehemiah 11:7	These also are the sonnes of Beniamin, Sallu, the sonne of Meshullam, the sonne of Ioed, the sonne of Pedaiah, the sonne of Kolaiah, the sonne of Maaseiah, the sonne of Ithiel, the sonne of Ieshaiah.
Nehemiah 11:8	And after him Gabai, Sallai, nine hundreth and twentie and eight.
Nehemiah 11:9	And Ioel the sonne of Zichri was gouernour ouer them: and Iudah, the sonne of Senuah was the second ouer the citie:
Nehemiah 11:10	Of the Priestes, Iedaiah, the sonne of Ioiarib, Iachin.
Nehemiah 11:11	Seraiah, the sonne of Hilkiah, the sonne of Meshullam, the sonne of Zadok, the sonne of Meraioth, the sonne of Ahitub was chiefe of the house of God.
Nehemiah 11:12	And their brethren that did the worke in the Temple, were eight hundreth, twenty and two: and Adaiah, the sonne of Ieroham, the sonne of Pelaliah, the sonne of Amzi, the sonne of Zechariah, the sonne of Pashur, the sonne of Malchiah:
Nehemiah 11:13	And his brethren, chiefe of the fathers, two hundreth and two and fourtie: and Amashsai the sonne of Azareel, the sonne of Ahazai, the sonne of Meshilemoth, the sonne of Immer:
Nehemiah 11:14	And their brethren valiant men, an hundreth and eight and twentie: and their ouerseer was Zabdiel the sonne of Hagedolim.
Nehemiah 11:15	And of the Leuites, Shemaiah, the sonne of Hashub, the sonne of Azrikam, the sonne of Hashabiah, the sonne of Bunni.
Nehemiah 11:16	And Shabbethai, and Iozabad of the chiefe of the Leuites were ouer the workes of the house of God without.
Nehemiah 11:17	And Mattaniah, the sonne of Micha, the sonne of Zabdi, the sonne of Asaph was the chiefe to begin the thankesgiuing and prayer: and Bakbukiah the second of his brethren, and Abda, the sonne of Shammua, the sonne of Galal, the sonne of Ieduthun.
Nehemiah 11:18	All the Leuites in the holy citie were two hundreth foure score and foure.
Nehemiah 11:19	And the porters Akkub, Talmon and their brethren that kept the gates, were an hundreth twentie and two.
Nehemiah 11:20	And the residue of Israel, of the Priests, and of the Leuites dwelt in al the cities of Iudah, euery one in his inheritance.
Nehemiah 11:21	And the Nethinims dwelt in the fortresse, and Ziha, and Gispa was ouer the Nethinims.
Nehemiah 11:22	And the ouerseer of the Leuites in Ierusalem was Vzzi the sonne of Bani, the sonne of Ashabiah, the sonne of Mattaniah, the sonne of Micha: of the sonnes of Asaph singers were ouer the worke of the house of God.
Nehemiah 11:23	For it was the Kings commandement cocerning them, that faithfull prouision shoulde bee for the singers euery day.
Nehemiah 11:24	And Pethahiah the sonne of Meshezabeel, of the sonnes of Zerah, the sonne of Iudah was at the Kings hand in all matters concerning the people.
Nehemiah 11:25	And in the villages in their landes, some of the children of Iudah dwelt in Kiriath-arba, and in the villages thereof, and in Dibon, and in the villages thereof, and in Iekabzeel. and in the villages thereof,
Nehemiah 11:26	And in Ieshua, and in Moladah, and in Beth palet,
Nehemiah 11:27	And in Hazer-shual, and in Beer-sheba, and in the villages thereof,
Nehemiah 11:28	And in Ziklag, and in Mechonah, and in the villages thereof,
Nehemiah 11:29	And in En-rimmon, and in Zareah, and in Iarmuth,
Nehemiah 11:30	Zanoah, Adullam, and in their villages, in Lachish, and in the fieldes thereof, at Azekah, and in the villages thereof: and they dwelt from Beer-sheba, vnto the valley of Hinnom.
Nehemiah 11:31	And the sonnes of Beniamin from Geba, in Michmash, and Aiia, and Beth-el, and in the villages thereof,
Nehemiah 11:32	Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
Nehemiah 11:33	Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
Nehemiah 11:34	Hadid, Zeboim, Nebalat,
Nehemiah 11:35	Lod and Ono, in the carpenters valley.
Nehemiah 11:36	And of the Leuites were diuisions in Iudah and in Beniamin.
Nehemiah 12:1	These also are the Priestes and the Leuites that went vp with Zerubbabel, the sonne of Shealtiel, and Ieshua: to wit, Seraiah, Ieremiah, Ezra,
Nehemiah 12:2	Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,
Nehemiah 12:3	Shecaniah, Rehum, Merimoth,
Nehemiah 12:4	Iddo, Ginnetho, Abiiah,
Nehemiah 12:5	Miamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,
Nehemiah 12:6	Shemaiah, and Ioiarib, Iedaiah,
Nehemiah 12:7	Sallu, Amok, Hilkiiah, Iedaiah: these were the chiefe of the Priests, and of their brethren in the dayes of Ieshua.
Nehemiah 12:8	And the Leuites, Ieshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Iudah, Mattaniah were ouer the thankesgiuings, he, and his brethren.
Nehemiah 12:9	And Bakbukiah and Vnni, and their brethren were about them in the watches.
Nehemiah 12:10	And Ieshua begate Ioiakim: Ioiakim also begate Eliashib, and Eliashib begate Ioiada.
Nehemiah 12:11	And Ioiada begate Ionathan, and Ionathan begate Iaddua,
Nehemiah 12:12	And in the daies of Ioiakim were these, the chiefe fathers of the Priests: vnder Seraiah was Meraiah, vnder Ieremiah, Hananiah,
Nehemiah 12:13	Vnder Ezra, Meshullam, vnder Amariah, Iehohanan,
Nehemiah 12:14	Vnder Melicu, Ionathan, vnder Shebaniah, Ioseph,
Nehemiah 12:15	Vnder Harim, Adna, vnder Maraioth, Helkai,
Nehemiah 12:16	Vnder Iddo, Zechariah, vnder Ginnithon, Meshullam,
Nehemiah 12:17	Vnder Abiiah, Zichri, vnder Miniamin, and vnder Moadiah, Piltai,
Nehemiah 12:18	Vnder Bilgah, Shammua, vnder Shemaiah, Iehonathan,
Nehemiah 12:19	Vnder Ioiarib, Mattenai, vnder Iedaiah, Vzzi,
Nehemiah 12:20	Vnder Sallai, Kallai, vnder Amok, Eber,
Nehemiah 12:21	Vnder Hilkiah, Hashabiah, vnder Iedaiah, Nethaneel.
Nehemiah 12:22	In the dayes of Eliashib, Ioiada, and Iohanan and Iaddua were the chiefe fathers of the Leuites written, and the Priests in the reigne of Darius the Persian.
Nehemiah 12:23	The sonnes of Leui, the chiefe fathers were written in the booke of the Chronicles euen vnto the dayes of Iohanan the sonne of Eliashib.
Nehemiah 12:24	And the chiefe of the Leuites were Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Ieshua the sonne of Kadmiel, and their brethren about them to giue prayse and thankes, according to the ordinance of Dauid the man of God, ward ouer against warde.
Nehemiah 12:25	Mattaniah and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon and Akkub were porters keeping the warde at the thresholds of the gates.
Nehemiah 12:26	These were in the dayes of Ioiakim, the sonne of Ieshua, the sonne of Iozadak, and in the dayes of Nehemiah the captaine, and of Ezra the Priest and scribe.
Nehemiah 12:27	And in the dedication of the wall at Ierusalem they sought the Leuites out of all their places to bring them to Ierusalem to keepe the dedication and gladnes, both with thankesgiuings and with songs, cymbales, violes and with harpes.
Nehemiah 12:28	Then the singers gathered themselues together both from the plaine countrey about Ierusalem, and from the villages of Netophathi,
Nehemiah 12:29	And from the house of Gilgal, and out of the countreis of Geba, and Azmaueth: for the singers had built them villages round about Ierusalem.
Nehemiah 12:30	And the Priests and Leuites were purified, and clensed the people, and the gates, and the wall.
Nehemiah 12:31	And I brought vp the princes of Iudah vpon the wall, and appointed two great companies to giue thankes, and the one went on the right hand of the wall toward the dung gate.
Nehemiah 12:32	And after them went Hoshaiah, and halfe of the princes of Iudah,
Nehemiah 12:33	And Azariah, Ezra and Meshullam,
Nehemiah 12:34	Iudah, Beniamin, and Shemaiah, and Ieremiah,
Nehemiah 12:35	And of the Priests sonnes with trumpets, Zechariah the sonne of Ionathan, the sonne of Shemaiah, the sonne of Mattaniah, the sonne of Michaiah, the sonne of Zaccur, ye sonne of Asaph.
Nehemiah 12:36	And his brethren, Shemaiah, and Azareel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethaneel, and Iudah, Hanani, with the musicall instruments of Dauid the man of God: and Ezra the scribe went before them.
Nehemiah 12:37	And to the gate of the fountaine, euen ouer against them went they vp by the staires of the citie of Dauid, at the going vp of the wall beyond the house of Dauid, euen vnto the water gate Eastward.
Nehemiah 12:38	And the seconde companie of them that gaue thankes, went on the other side, and I after them, and the halfe of the people was vpon the wall, and vpon the towre of the furnaces euen vnto the broad wall.
Nehemiah 12:39	And vpon the gate of Ephraim, and vpon the olde gate, and vpon the fishgate, and the towre of Hananeel, and the towre of Meah, euen vnto the sheepegate: and they stood in the gate of the warde.
Nehemiah 12:40	So stood the two companies (of them that gaue thankes) in the house of God, and I and the halfe of the rulers with me.
Nehemiah 12:41	The Priests also, Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Michaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, Hananiah, with trumpets,
Nehemiah 12:42	And Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Eleazar, and Vzzi, and Iehohanan, and Malchiiah, and Elam, and Ezer: and the singers sang loude, hauing Izrahiah which was the ouerseer.
Nehemiah 12:43	And the same day they offered great sacrifices and reioyced: for God had giuen them great ioy, so that both the women, and the children were ioyfull: and the ioy of Ierusalem was heard farre off.
Nehemiah 12:44	Also at the same time were men appointed ouer the chambers of the store for the offerings (for the first fruites, and for the tithes) to gather into them out of the fieldes of the cities, the portions of the Law for the Priests and the Leuites: for Iudah reioyced for the Priests and for the Leuites, that serued.
Nehemiah 12:45	And both the singers and the Leuites kept the ward of their God, and the warde of the purification according to the commandement of Dauid, and Salomon his sonne.
Nehemiah 12:46	For in the dayes of Dauid and Asaph, of olde were chiefe singers, and songs of praise and thankesgiuing vnto God.
Nehemiah 12:47	And in the dayes of Zerubbabel, and in the dayes of Nehemiah did al Israel giue portions vnto the singers and porters, euerie day his portion, and they gaue the holy things vnto the Leuites, and the Leuites gaue the holy things vnto the sonnes of Aaron.
Nehemiah 13:1	And on that day did they reade in the booke of Moses, in the audience of the people, and it was found written therein, that the Ammonite, and the Moabite should not enter into the Congregation of God,
Nehemiah 13:2	Because they met not the children of Israel with bread and with water, but hired Balaam against them, that he should curse them: and our God turned the curse into a blessing.
Nehemiah 13:3	Now when they had heard the Lawe, they separated from Israel all those that were mixed.
Nehemiah 13:4	And before this had the Priest Eliashib the ouersight of the chamber of the house of our God, being kinsman to Tobiah:
Nehemiah 13:5	And he had made him a great chamber and there had they aforetime layde the offringes, the incense, and the vessels, and the tithes of corne, of wine, and of oyle (appointed for the Leuites, and the singers, and the porters) and the offringes of the Priests.
Nehemiah 13:6	But in all this time was not I in Ierusalem: for in the two and thirtieth yere of Artahshashte King of Babel, came I vnto the King, and after certaine dayes I obteined of the King.
Nehemiah 13:7	And when I was come to Ierusalem, I vnderstood the euil that Eliashib had done for Tobiah, in that hee had made him a chamber in the court of the house of God,
Nehemiah 13:8	And it grieued me sore: therefore I cast forth all the vessels of the house of Tobiah out of the chamber.
Nehemiah 13:9	And I commanded them to clense ye chambers: and thither brought I againe the vessels of the house of God with the meate offring and the incense.
Nehemiah 13:10	And I perceiued that the portions of the Leuites had not bene giuen, and that euery one was fled to his lande, euen the Leuites and singers that executed the worke.
Nehemiah 13:11	Then reproued I the rulers and sayd, Why is the house of God forsaken? And I assembled them, and set them in their place.
Nehemiah 13:12	Then brought all Iudah the tithes of corne and of wine, and of oyle vnto the treasures.
Nehemiah 13:13	And I made treasurers ouer the treasures, Shelemiah the Priest, and Zadok the scribe, and of the Leuites, Pedaiah, and vnder their hande Hanan the sonne of Zaccur the sonne of Mattaniah: for they were counted faithfull, and their office was to distribute vnto their brethren.
Nehemiah 13:14	Remember me, O my God, herein, and wipe not out my kindenes that I haue shewed on the house of my God, and on the offices thereof.
Nehemiah 13:15	In those dayes saw I in Iudah them, that trode wine presses on ye Sabbath, and that brought in sheaues, and which laded asses also with wine, grapes, and figges, and all burdens, and brought them into Ierusalem vpon the Sabbath day: and I protested to them in the day that they sold vitailes.
Nehemiah 13:16	There dwelt men of Tyrus also therein, which brought fish and all wares, and solde on the Sabbath vnto the children of Iudah euen in Ierusalem.
Nehemiah 13:17	Then reprooued I the rulers of Iudah, and sayd vnto them, What euil thing is this that yee doe, and breake the Sabbath day?
Nehemiah 13:18	Did not your fathers thus, and our God brought all this plague vpon vs, and vpon this citie? yet yee increase the wrath vpon Israel, in breaking the Sabbath.
Nehemiah 13:19	And when the gates of Ierusalem beganne to be darke before the Sabbath, I commaded to shut the gates, and charged, that they should not be opened til after the Sabbath, and some of my seruants set I at the gates, that there shoulde no burden be brought in on the Sabbath day.
Nehemiah 13:20	So the chapmen and marchants of al marchandise remained once or twise all night without Ierusalem.
Nehemiah 13:21	And I protested among them, and said vnto them, Why tary ye all night about the wall? If ye do it once againe, I will lay hands vpon you. from that time came they no more on the Sabbath.
Nehemiah 13:22	And I sayde vnto the Leuites, that they should clense themselues, and that they shoulde come and keepe the gates, to sanctifie the Sabbath day. Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and pardon me according to thy great mercy.
Nehemiah 13:23	In those dayes also I saw Iewes that married wiues of Ashdod, of Ammon, and of Moab.
Nehemiah 13:24	And their children spake halfe in ye speach of Ashdod, and could not speake in the Iewes language, and according to the language of the one people, and of the other people.
Nehemiah 13:25	Then I reprooued them, and cursed them, and smote certaine of them, and pulled off their heare, and tooke an othe of them by God, Yee shall not giue your daughters vnto their sonnes, neither shall ye take of their daughters vnto your sonnes, nor for your selues.
Nehemiah 13:26	Did not Salomon the king of Israel sinne by these thinges? yet among many nations was there no King like him: for he was beloued of his God, and God had made him King ouer Israel: yet strange women caused him to sinne.
Nehemiah 13:27	Shall wee then obey vnto you, to doe all this great euil, and to transgresse against our God, euen to marry strange wiues?
Nehemiah 13:28	And one of the sonnes of Ioiada the sonne of Eliashib the hie Priest was the sonne in law of Sanballat the Horonite: but I chased him from me.
Nehemiah 13:29	Remember them, O my God, that defile the Priesthoode, and the couenant of the Priesthoode, and of the Leuites.
Nehemiah 13:30	Then cleansed I them from all strangers, and appoynted the wardes of the Priestes and of the Leuites, euery one in his office,
Nehemiah 13:31	And for the offring of the wood at times appoynted, and for the first fruites. Remember me, O my God, in goodnes.
