GENEVA 1599 PUBLIC DOMAIN CORPUS

===== BOOK: 2 Corinthians =====
2 Corinthians 1:1	Pavl an Apostle of JESVS Christ, by the will of God, and our brother Timotheus, to the Church of God, which is at Corinthus with all the Saints, which are in all Achaia:
2 Corinthians 1:2	Grace be with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
2 Corinthians 1:3	Blessed be God, euen the Father of our Lord Iesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort,
2 Corinthians 1:4	Which comforteth vs in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any affliction by the comfort wherewith we our selues are comforted of God.
2 Corinthians 1:5	For as the sufferings of Christ abounde in vs, so our consolation aboundeth through Christ.
2 Corinthians 1:6	And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and saluation, which is wrought in the induring of the same sufferings, which we also suffer: or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and saluation.
2 Corinthians 1:7	And our hope is stedfast concerning you, in as much as we know that as ye are partakers of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation.
2 Corinthians 1:8	For brethren, we woulde not haue you ignorant of our affliction, which came vnto vs in Asia, howe we were pressed out of measure passing strength, so that we altogether doubted, euen of life.
2 Corinthians 1:9	Yea, we receiued the sentence of death in our selues, because we shoulde not trust in our selues, but in God, which rayseth the dead.
2 Corinthians 1:10	Who deliuered vs from so great a death, and doeth deliuer vs: in whom we trust, that yet hereafter he will deliuer vs,
2 Corinthians 1:11	So that ye labour together in prayer for vs, that for the gift bestowed vpon vs for many, thankes may be giuen by many persons for vs.
2 Corinthians 1:12	For our reioycing is this, the testimonie of our conscience, that in simplicitie and godly purenesse, and not in fleshly wisedome, but by the grace of God wee haue had our conuersation in the worlde, and most of all to you wardes.
2 Corinthians 1:13	For wee write none other thinges vnto you, then that ye reade or els that ye acknowledge, and I trust ye shall acknowledge vnto ye end.
2 Corinthians 1:14	Euen as ye haue acknowledged vs partly, that we are your reioycing, euen as ye are ours, in the day of our Lord Iesus.
2 Corinthians 1:15	And in this confidence was I minded first to come vnto you, that ye might haue had a double grace,
2 Corinthians 1:16	And to passe by you into Macedonia, and to come againe out of Macedonia vnto you, and to be led foorth towarde Iudea of you.
2 Corinthians 1:17	When I therefore was thus minded, did I vse lightnesse? or minde I those thinges which I minde, according to the flesh, that with me should be, Yea, yea, and Nay, nay?
2 Corinthians 1:18	Yea, God is faithfull, that our worde towarde you was not Yea, and Nay.
2 Corinthians 1:19	For the Sonne of God Iesus Christ, who was preached among you by vs, that is, by me, and Siluanus, and Timotheus, was not Yea, and Nay: but in him it was Yea.
2 Corinthians 1:20	For all the promises of God in him are Yea, and are in him Amen, vnto the glorie of God through vs.
2 Corinthians 1:21	And it is God which stablisheth vs with you in Christ, and hath anoynted vs.
2 Corinthians 1:22	Who hath also sealed vs, and hath giuen the earnest of the Spirit in our hearts.
2 Corinthians 1:23	Nowe, I call God for a recorde vnto my soule, that to spare you, I came not as yet vnto Corinthus.
2 Corinthians 1:24	Not that wee haue dominion ouer your faith, but wee are helpers of your ioy: for by faith yee stande.
2 Corinthians 2:1	Bvt I determined thus in my selfe, that I would not come againe to you in heauinesse.
2 Corinthians 2:2	For if I make you sorie, who is he then that shoulde make me glad, but ye same which is made sorie by me?
2 Corinthians 2:3	And I wrote this same thing vnto you, lest when I came, I should take heauines of them, of whom I ought to reioyce: this confidence haue I in you all, that my ioye is the ioye of you all.
2 Corinthians 2:4	For in great affliction, and anguish of heart I wrote vnto you with many teares: not that yee should be made sorie, but that ye might perceiue the loue which I haue, specially vnto you.
2 Corinthians 2:5	And if any hath caused sorowe, the same hath not made mee sorie, but partly (lest I should more charge him) you all.
2 Corinthians 2:6	It is sufficient vnto the same man, that hee was rebuked of many.
2 Corinthians 2:7	So that nowe contrariwise yee ought rather to forgiue him, and comfort him, lest the same shoulde bee swalowed vp with ouermuch heauinesse.
2 Corinthians 2:8	Wherefore, I pray you, that you woulde confirme your loue towards him.
2 Corinthians 2:9	For this cause also did I write, that I might knowe the proofe of you, whether yee would be obedient in all things.
2 Corinthians 2:10	To whome yee forgiue any thing, I forgiue also: for verely if I forgaue any thing, to whome I forgaue it, for your sakes forgaue I it in the sight of Christ,
2 Corinthians 2:11	Lest Satan should circumuent vs: for we are not ignorant of his enterprises.
2 Corinthians 2:12	Furthermore, when I came to Troas to preach Christs Gospell, and a doore was opened vnto me of the Lord,
2 Corinthians 2:13	I had no rest in my spirit, because I founde not Titus my brother, but tooke my leaue of them, and went away into Macedonia.
2 Corinthians 2:14	Now thankes be vnto God, which alwaies maketh vs to triumph in Christ, and maketh manifest the sauour of his knowledge by vs in euery place.
2 Corinthians 2:15	For wee are vnto God the sweete sauour of Christ, in them that are saued, and in them which perish.
2 Corinthians 2:16	To the one we are the sauour of death, vnto death, and to the other the sauour of life, vnto life: and who is sufficient for these things?
2 Corinthians 2:17	For wee are not as many, which make marchandise of the woorde of God: but as of sinceritie, but as of God in ye sight of God speake we in Christ.
2 Corinthians 3:1	Doe we begin to praise our selues againe? or neede we as some other, epistles of recommendation vnto you, or letters of recommendation from you?
2 Corinthians 3:2	Yee are our epistle, written in our hearts, which is vnderstand, and read of all men,
2 Corinthians 3:3	In that yee are manifest, to be the Epistle of Christ, ministred by vs, and written, not with yncke, but with the Spirite of the liuing God, not in tables of stone, but in fleshly tables of the heart.
2 Corinthians 3:4	And such trust haue we through Christ to God:
2 Corinthians 3:5	Not that we are sufficient of our selues, to thinke any thing, as of our selues: but our sufficiencie is of God,
2 Corinthians 3:6	Who also hath made vs able ministers of the Newe testament, not of the letter, but of the Spirite: for the letter killeth, but the Spirite giueth life.
2 Corinthians 3:7	If then the ministration of death written with letters and ingrauen in stones, was glorious, so that the children of Israel coulde not beholde the face of Moses, for the glorie of his countenance (which glorie is done away.)
2 Corinthians 3:8	Howe shall not the ministration of the Spirite be more glorious?
2 Corinthians 3:9	For if the ministerie of condemnation was glorious, much more doeth the ministration of righteousnesse exceede in glorie.
2 Corinthians 3:10	For euen that which was glorified, was not glorified in this point, that is, as touching the exceeding glorie.
2 Corinthians 3:11	For if that which should be abolished, was glorious, much more shall that which remaineth, be glorious.
2 Corinthians 3:12	Seeing then that we haue such trust, we vse great boldnesse of speach.
2 Corinthians 3:13	And we are not as Moses, which put a vaile vpon his face, that the children of Israel should not looke vnto the ende of that which should be abolished.
2 Corinthians 3:14	Therefore their mindes are hardened: for vntill this day remaineth the same couering vntaken away in the reading of the olde Testament, which vaile in Christ is put away.
2 Corinthians 3:15	But euen vnto this day, whe Moses is read, the vaile is laid ouer their hearts.
2 Corinthians 3:16	Neuertheles when their heart shall be turned to the Lord, the vaile shalbe taken away.
2 Corinthians 3:17	Nowe the Lord is the Spirite, and where the Spirite of the Lord is, there is libertie.
2 Corinthians 3:18	But we al behold as in a mirrour the glory of the Lord with open face, and are changed into the same image, from glorie to glorie, as by the Spirit of the Lord.
2 Corinthians 4:1	Therefore, seeing that we haue this ministerie, as we haue receiued mercy, we faint not:
2 Corinthians 4:2	But haue cast from vs ye clokes of shame, and walke not in craftines, neither handle we the worde of God deceitfully: but in declaration of the trueth we approue our selues to euery mans conscience in the sight of God.
2 Corinthians 4:3	If our Gospell bee then hid, it is hid to them that are lost.
2 Corinthians 4:4	In whom the God of this world hath blinded the mindes, that is, of the infidels, that the light of the glorious Gospell of Christ, which is the image of God, should not shine vnto them.
2 Corinthians 4:5	For we preach not our selues, but Christ Iesus the Lord, and our selues your seruaunts for Iesus sake.
2 Corinthians 4:6	For God that commanded the light to shine out of darknesse, is he which hath shined in our hearts, to giue the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Iesus Christ.
2 Corinthians 4:7	But we haue this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellencie of that power might be of God, and not of vs.
2 Corinthians 4:8	Wee are afflicted on euery side, yet are we not in distresse: we are in doubt, but yet wee despaire not.
2 Corinthians 4:9	We are persecuted, but not forsaken: cast downe, but we perish not.
2 Corinthians 4:10	Euery where we beare about in our bodie the dying of the Lord Iesus, that the life of Iesus might also be made manifest in our bodies.
2 Corinthians 4:11	For we which liue, are alwaies deliuered vnto death for Iesus sake, that the life also of Iesus might be made manifest in our mortal flesh.
2 Corinthians 4:12	So then death worketh in vs, and life in you.
2 Corinthians 4:13	And because we haue the same spirite of faith, according as it is written, I beleeued, and therefore haue I spoken, we also beleeue, and therefore speake,
2 Corinthians 4:14	Knowing that he which hath raised vp the Lord Iesus, shall raise vs vp also by Iesus, and shall set vs with you.
2 Corinthians 4:15	For all thinges are for your sakes, that that most plenteous grace by the thankesgiuing of many, may redound to the praise of God.
2 Corinthians 4:16	Therefore we faint not, but though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed daily.
2 Corinthians 4:17	For our light affliction which is but for a moment, causeth vnto vs a farre most excellent and an eternall waight of glorie:
2 Corinthians 4:18	While we looke not on the thinges which are seene, but on the things which are not seene: for the things which are seene, are temporall: but the things which are not seene, are eternall.
2 Corinthians 5:1	For we knowe that if our earthly house of this tabernacle be destroyed, we haue a building giuen of God, that is, an house not made with handes, but eternall in the heauens.
2 Corinthians 5:2	For therefore we sighe, desiring to be clothed with our house, which is from heauen.
2 Corinthians 5:3	Because that if we be clothed, we shall not be found naked.
2 Corinthians 5:4	For in deede we that are in this tabernacle, sigh and are burdened, because we would not be vnclothed, but would be clothed vpon, that mortalitie might be swalowed vp of life.
2 Corinthians 5:5	And he that hath created vs for this thing, is God, who also hath giuen vnto vs the earnest of the Spirit.
2 Corinthians 5:6	Therefore we are alway bolde, though we knowe that whiles we are at home in the bodie, we are absent from the Lord.
2 Corinthians 5:7	(For we walke by faith, and not by sight.)
2 Corinthians 5:8	Neuerthelesse, we are bolde, and loue rather to remoue out of the body, and to dwell with the Lord.
2 Corinthians 5:9	Wherefore also we couet, that both dwelling at home, and remouing from home, we may be acceptable to him.
2 Corinthians 5:10	For we must all appeare before the iudgement seate of Christ, that euery man may receiue the things which are done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or euill.
2 Corinthians 5:11	Knowing therefore that terrour of the Lord, we persuade men, and we are made manifest vnto God, and I trust also that we are made manifest in your consciences.
2 Corinthians 5:12	For we prayse not our selues againe vnto you, but giue you an occasion to reioyce of vs, that ye may haue to answere against them, which reioyce in the face, and not in the heart.
2 Corinthians 5:13	For whether we be out of our wit, we are it to God: or whether we be in our right minde, we are it vnto you.
2 Corinthians 5:14	For that loue of Christ constraineth vs,
2 Corinthians 5:15	Because we thus iudge, that if one be dead for all, then were all dead, and he died for all, that they which liue, shoulde not henceforth liue vnto themselues, but vnto him which died for them, and rose againe.
2 Corinthians 5:16	Wherefore, henceforth know we no man after the flesh, yea though wee had knowen Christ after the flesh, yet nowe henceforth know we him no more.
2 Corinthians 5:17	Therefore if any man be in Christ, let him be a newe creature. Olde things are passed away: beholde, all things are become newe.
2 Corinthians 5:18	And all things are of God, which hath reconciled vs vnto himselfe by Iesus Christ, and hath giuen vnto vs the ministerie of reconciliation.
2 Corinthians 5:19	For God was in Christ, and reconciled the world to himselfe, not imputing their sinnes vnto them, and hath committed to vs the word of reconciliation.
2 Corinthians 5:20	Now then are we ambassadours for Christ: as though God did beseeche you through vs, we pray you in Christes steade, that ye be reconciled to God.
2 Corinthians 5:21	For he hath made him to be sinne for vs, which knewe no sinne, that we should be made the righteousnesse of God in him.
2 Corinthians 6:1	So we therefore as workers together beseech you, that ye receiue not the grace of God in vaine.
2 Corinthians 6:2	For he sayth, I haue heard thee in a time accepted, and in the day of saluation haue I succoured thee: beholde nowe the accepted time, beholde nowe the day of saluation.
2 Corinthians 6:3	We giue no occasion of offence in any thing, that our ministerie shoulde not be reprehended.
2 Corinthians 6:4	But in all things we approue our selues as the ministers of God, in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses,
2 Corinthians 6:5	In stripes, in prisons, in tumults, in labours,
2 Corinthians 6:6	By watchings, by fastings, by puritie, by knowledge, by long suffering, by kindnesse, by the holy Ghost, by loue vnfained,
2 Corinthians 6:7	By the worde of trueth, by the power of God, by the armour of righteousnesse on the right hand, and on the left,
2 Corinthians 6:8	By honour, and dishonour, by euill report, and good report, as deceiuers, and yet true:
2 Corinthians 6:9	As vnknowen, and yet knowen: as dying, and beholde, we liue: as chastened, and yet not killed:
2 Corinthians 6:10	As sorowing, and yet alway reioycing: as poore, and yet make many riche: as hauing nothing, and yet possessing all things.
2 Corinthians 6:11	O Corinthians, our mouth is open vnto you: our heart is made large.
2 Corinthians 6:12	Ye are not kept strait in vs, but ye are kept strait in your owne bowels.
2 Corinthians 6:13	Nowe for the same recompence, I speake as to my children, Be you also inlarged.
2 Corinthians 6:14	Be not vnequally yoked with the infidels: for what fellowship hath righteousnesse with vnrighteousnesse? and what communion hath light with darkenesse?
2 Corinthians 6:15	And what concord hath Christ with Belial? or what part hath the beleeuer with the infidell?
2 Corinthians 6:16	And what agreement hath the Temple of God with idols? for ye are the Temple of the liuing God: as God hath said, I will dwell among them, and walke there: and I will be their God, and they shalbe my people.
2 Corinthians 6:17	Wherefore come out from among them, and separate your selues, saith the Lord, and touch none vncleane thing, and I wil receiue you.
2 Corinthians 6:18	And I will be a Father vnto you, and ye shalbe my sonnes and daughters, saith the Lord almightie.
2 Corinthians 7:1	Seing then we haue these promises, dearely beloued, let vs clense our selues from all filthinesse of the flesh and spirit, and finish our sanctification in the feare of God.
2 Corinthians 7:2	Receiue vs: we haue done wrong to no man: we haue corrupted no man: we haue defrauded no man.
2 Corinthians 7:3	I speake it not to your condemnation: for I haue said before, that ye are in our hearts, to die and liue together.
2 Corinthians 7:4	I vse great boldnesse of speach toward you: I reioyce greatly in you: I am filled with comfort, and am exceeding ioyous in all our tribulation.
2 Corinthians 7:5	For when we were come into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest, but we were troubled on euery side, fightings without, and terrours within.
2 Corinthians 7:6	But God, that comforteth the abiect, comforted vs at the comming of Titus:
2 Corinthians 7:7	And not by his comming onely, but also by the consolation wherewith he was comforted of you, when he tolde vs your great desire, your mourning, your feruent minde to me warde, so that I reioyced much more.
2 Corinthians 7:8	For though I made you sorie with a letter, I repent not, though I did repent: for I perceiue that the same epistle made you sorie, though it were but for a season.
2 Corinthians 7:9	I nowe reioyce, not that ye were sorie, but that ye sorowed to repentance: for ye sorowed godly, so that in nothing ye were hurt by vs.
2 Corinthians 7:10	For godly sorowe causeth repentance vnto saluation, not to be repented of: but the worldly sorowe causeth death.
2 Corinthians 7:11	For beholde, this thing that ye haue bene godly sory, what great care it hath wrought in you: yea, what clearing of yourselues: yea, what indignation: yea, what feare: yea, howe great desire: yea, what a zeale: yea, what reuenge: in all things ye haue shewed your selues, that ye are pure in this matter.
2 Corinthians 7:12	Wherefore, though I wrote vnto you, I did not it for his cause that had done the wrong, neither for his cause that had the iniurie, but that our care toward you in the sight of God might appeare vnto you.
2 Corinthians 7:13	Therefore we were comforted, because ye were comforted: but rather we reioyced much more for the ioye of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by you all.
2 Corinthians 7:14	For if that I haue boasted any thing to him of you, I haue not bene ashamed: but as I haue spoken vnto you all things in trueth, euen so our boasting vnto Titus was true.
2 Corinthians 7:15	And his inwarde affection is more aboundant toward you, when he remembreth the obedience of you all, and howe with feare and trembling ye receiued him.
2 Corinthians 7:16	I reioyce therefore that I may put my confidence in you in all things.
2 Corinthians 8:1	We doe you also to wit, brethren, of the grace of God bestowed vpon the Churches of Macedonia,
2 Corinthians 8:2	Because in great triall of affliction their ioy abounded, and their most extreme pouertie abounded vnto their rich liberalitie.
2 Corinthians 8:3	For to their power (I beare record) yea, and beyonde their power, they were willing,
2 Corinthians 8:4	And praied vs with great instance that we woulde receiue the grace, and fellowship of the ministring which is toward the Saints.
2 Corinthians 8:5	And this they did, not as we looked for: but gaue their owne selues, first to the Lord, and after vnto vs by the will of God,
2 Corinthians 8:6	That we should exhort Titus, that as hee had begon, so he would also accomplish the same grace among you also.
2 Corinthians 8:7	Therefore, as yee abound in euery thing, in faith and woorde, and knowledge, and in all diligence, and in your loue towardes vs, euen so see that yee abound in this grace also.
2 Corinthians 8:8	This say I not by commandement, but because of the diligence of others: therefore prooue I the naturalnesse of your loue.
2 Corinthians 8:9	For ye knowe the grace of our Lord Iesus Christ, that hee being rich, for your sakes became poore, that yee through his pouertie might be made rich.
2 Corinthians 8:10	And I shewe my minde herein: for this is expedient for you, which haue begun not to doe onely, but also to will, a yeare agoe.
2 Corinthians 8:11	Nowe therefore performe to doe it also, that as there was a readinesse to will, euen so yee may performe it of that which yee haue.
2 Corinthians 8:12	For if there be first a willing minde, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not.
2 Corinthians 8:13	Neither is it that other men should be eased and you grieued: But vpon like condition, at this time your abundance supplieth their lacke:
2 Corinthians 8:14	That also their aboundance may bee for your lacke, that there may be equalitie:
2 Corinthians 8:15	As it is written, Hee that gathered much, had nothing ouer, and hee that gathered litle, had not the lesse.
2 Corinthians 8:16	And thanks be vnto God, which hath put in the heart of Titus the same care for you.
2 Corinthians 8:17	Because hee accepted the exhortation, yea, hee was so carefull that of his owne accorde hee went vnto you.
2 Corinthians 8:18	And wee haue sent also with him the brother, whose praise is in the Gospel throughout al the Churches.
2 Corinthians 8:19	(And not so onely, but is also chosen of the Churches to be a fellowe in our iourney, concerning this grace that is ministred by vs vnto the glorie of the same Lord, and declaration of your prompt minde)
2 Corinthians 8:20	Auoiding this, that no man shoulde blame vs in this aboundance that is ministred by vs,
2 Corinthians 8:21	Prouiding for honest thinges, not onely before the Lord, but also before men.
2 Corinthians 8:22	And we haue sent with them our brother, whom we haue oft times prooued to be diligent in many thinges, but nowe much more diligent, for the great confidence, which I haue in you.
2 Corinthians 8:23	Whether any doe inquire of Titus, he is my fellowe and helper to you ward: or of our brethren, they are messengers of the Churches, and the glorie of Christ.
2 Corinthians 8:24	Wherefore shew toward them, and before the Churches the proofe of your loue, and of the reioycing that we haue of you.
2 Corinthians 9:1	For as touching the ministring to the Saints, it is superfluous for me to write vnto you.
2 Corinthians 9:2	For I knowe your readinesse of minde, whereof I boast my selfe of you vnto them of Macedonia, and say, that Achaia was prepared a yeere agoe, and your zeale hath prouoked many.
2 Corinthians 9:3	Nowe haue I sent the brethren, lest our reioycing ouer you shoulde bee in vaine in this behalfe, that yee (as I haue sayde) be readie:
2 Corinthians 9:4	Lest if they of Macedonia come with me, and finde you vnprepared, we (that wee may not say, you) should be ashamed in this my constant boasting.
2 Corinthians 9:5	Wherefore, I thought it necessarie to exhort the brethren to come before vnto you, and to finish your beneuolence appointed afore, that it might be readie, and come as of beneuolence, and not as of niggardlinesse.
2 Corinthians 9:6	This yet remember, that he which soweth sparingly, shall reape also sparingly, and hee that soweth liberally, shall reape also liberally.
2 Corinthians 9:7	As euery man wisheth in his heart, so let him giue, not grudgingly, or of necessitie: for God loueth a cheerefull giuer.
2 Corinthians 9:8	And God is able to make all grace to abound towarde you, that yee alwayes hauing all sufficiencie in all thinges, may abounde in euery good worke,
2 Corinthians 9:9	(As it is written, He hath sparsed abroad and hath giuen to the poore: his beneuolence remayneth for euer.
2 Corinthians 9:10	Also hee that findeth seede to the sower, will minister likewise bread for foode, and multiplie your seede, and increase the fruites of your beneuolence,)
2 Corinthians 9:11	That on all partes yee may bee made rich vnto all liberalitie, which causeth through vs thankesgiuing vnto God.
2 Corinthians 9:12	For the ministration of this seruice not onely supplieth the necessities of the Saintes, but also aboundantly causeth many to giue thankes to God,
2 Corinthians 9:13	(Which by the experiment of this ministration praise God for your voluntarie submission to the Gospell of Christ, and for your liberall distribution to them, and to all men)
2 Corinthians 9:14	And in their praier for you, to log after you greatly, for the aboundant grace of God in you.
2 Corinthians 9:15	Thankes therefore bee vnto God for his vnspeakeable gift.
2 Corinthians 10:1	Nowe I Paul my selfe beseech you by the meekenes, and gentlenes of Christ, which when I am present among you am base, but am bolde toward you being absent:
2 Corinthians 10:2	And this I require you, that I neede not to be bolde when I am present, with that same confidence, wherewith I thinke to bee bolde against some, which esteeme vs as though wee walked according to the flesh.
2 Corinthians 10:3	Neuerthelesse, though wee walke in the flesh, yet we doe not warre after the flesh.
2 Corinthians 10:4	(For the weapons of our warrefare are not carnall, but mightie through God, to cast downe holdes)
2 Corinthians 10:5	Casting downe the imaginations, and euery high thing that is exalted against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captiuitie euery thought to the obedience of Christ,
2 Corinthians 10:6	And hauing ready the vengeance against all disobedience, when your obedience is fulfilled.
2 Corinthians 10:7	Looke yee on things after the appearance? If any man trust in himselfe that hee is Christes, let him consider this againe of himself, that as he is Christes, euen so are we Christes.
2 Corinthians 10:8	For though I shoulde boast somewhat more of our authoritie, which the Lord hath giuen vs for edification, and not for your destruction, I should haue no shame.
2 Corinthians 10:9	This I say, that I may not seeme as it were to feare you with letters.
2 Corinthians 10:10	For the letters, sayeth hee, are sore and strong, but his bodily presence is weake, and his speache is of no value.
2 Corinthians 10:11	Let such one thinke this, that such as wee are in woorde by letters, when we are absent, such wil we be also in deede, when we are present.
2 Corinthians 10:12	For wee dare not make our selues of the nomber, or to compare our selues to them, which praise themselues: but they vnderstand not that they measure themselues with themselues, and compare themselues with themselues.
2 Corinthians 10:13	But we wil not reioyce of things, which are not within our measure, but according to the measure of the line, whereof God hath distributed vnto vs a measure to attaine euen vnto you.
2 Corinthians 10:14	For we stretche not our selues beyonde our measure, as though wee had not attained vnto you: for euen to you also haue we come in preaching the Gospel of Christ,
2 Corinthians 10:15	Not boasting of things which are without our measure: that is, of other mens labours: and we hope, when your faith shall increase, to bee magnified by you according to our line aboundantly,
2 Corinthians 10:16	And to preache the Gospel in those regions which are beyonde you: not to reioyce in another mans line, that is, in the thinges that are prepared alreadie.
2 Corinthians 10:17	But let him that reioyceth, reioyce in the Lord.
2 Corinthians 10:18	For hee that praiseth himselfe, is not alowed, but he whome the Lord praiseth.
2 Corinthians 11:1	Woulde to God, yee coulde suffer a litle my foolishnes, and in deede, ye suffer me.
2 Corinthians 11:2	For I am ielous ouer you, with godly ielousie: for I haue prepared you for one husband, to present you as a pure virgine to Christ:
2 Corinthians 11:3	But I feare least as the serpent beguiled Eue through his subtiltie, so your mindes shoulde be corrupt from the simplicitie that is in Christ.
2 Corinthians 11:4	For if he that commeth, preacheth another Iesus whome we haue not preached: or if yee receiue another spirite whome ye haue not receiued: either another Gospell, which yee haue not receiued, ye might well haue suffered him.
2 Corinthians 11:5	Verely I suppose that I was not inferior to the very chiefe Apostles.
2 Corinthians 11:6	And though I be rude in speaking, yet I am not so in knowledge, but among you wee haue beene made manifest to the vttermost, in all things.
2 Corinthians 11:7	Haue I committed an offence, because I abased my selfe, that ye might be exalted, and because I preached to you ye Gospell of God freely?
2 Corinthians 11:8	I robbed other Churches, and tooke wages of them to doe you seruice.
2 Corinthians 11:9	And when I was present with you, and had neede, I was not slouthfull to the hinderance of any man: for that which was lacking vnto me, the brethre which came from Macedonia, supplied, and in all thinges I kept and will keepe my selfe, that I should not be grieuous to you.
2 Corinthians 11:10	The trueth of Christ is in me, that this reioycing shall not be shut vp against me in the regions of Achaia.
2 Corinthians 11:11	Wherefore? because I loue you not? God knoweth.
2 Corinthians 11:12	But what I doe, that will I doe: that I may cut away occasion from them which desire occasion, that they might be found like vnto vs in that wherein they reioyce.
2 Corinthians 11:13	For such false apostles are deceitfull workers, and transforme themselues into the Apostles of Christ.
2 Corinthians 11:14	And no marueile: for Satan himselfe is transformed into an Angel of light.
2 Corinthians 11:15	Therefore it is no great thing, though his ministers transforme themselues, as though they were the ministers of righteousnes, whose end shall be according to their workes.
2 Corinthians 11:16	I say againe, Let no man thinke that I am foolish, or els take mee euen as a foole, that I also may boast my selfe a litle.
2 Corinthians 11:17	That I speake, I speake it not after the Lord: but as it were foolishly, in this my great boasting.
2 Corinthians 11:18	Seeing that many reioyce after the flesh, I will reioyce also.
2 Corinthians 11:19	For ye suffer fooles gladly, because that yee are wise.
2 Corinthians 11:20	For ye suffer, euen if a man bring you into bondage, if a man deuoure you, if a man take your goods, if a man exalt himselfe, if a man smite you on the face.
2 Corinthians 11:21	I speake as concerning the reproche: as though that we had bene weake: but wherein any man is bold (I speake foolishly) I am bold also.
2 Corinthians 11:22	They are Hebrues, so am I: they are Israelites, so am I: they are the seede of Abraham, so am I:
2 Corinthians 11:23	They are the ministers of Christ (I speake as a foole) I am more: in labours more aboundant: in stripes aboue measure: in prison more plenteously: in death oft.
2 Corinthians 11:24	Of the Iewes fiue times receiued I fourtie stripes saue one.
2 Corinthians 11:25	I was thrise beaten with roddes: I was once stoned: I suffered thrise shipwracke: night and day haue I bene in the deepe sea.
2 Corinthians 11:26	In iourneying I was often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils of mine owne nation, in perils among the Gentiles, in perils in the citie, in perils in wildernes, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren,
2 Corinthians 11:27	In wearinesse and painefulnesse, in watching often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in colde and in nakednesse.
2 Corinthians 11:28	Beside the thinges which are outwarde, I am combred dayly, and haue the care of all the Churches.
2 Corinthians 11:29	Who is weake, and I am not weake? who is offended, and I burne not?
2 Corinthians 11:30	If I must needes reioyce, I will reioyce of mine infirmities.
2 Corinthians 11:31	The God, euen the Father of our Lord Iesus Christ, which is blessed for euermore, knoweth that I lie not.
2 Corinthians 11:32	In Damascus the gouernour of the people vnder King Aretas, layde watch in the citie of the Damascens, and would haue caught me.
2 Corinthians 11:33	But at a window was I let downe in a basket through the wall, and escaped his handes.
2 Corinthians 12:1	It is not expedient for me no doubt to reioyce: for I will come to visions and reuelations of the Lord.
2 Corinthians 12:2	I know a man in Christ aboue fourteene yeeres agone, (whether he were in the body, I can not tell, or out of the body, I can not tell: God knoweth) which was taken vp into the thirde heauen.
2 Corinthians 12:3	And I knowe such a man (whether in the body, or out of the body, I can not tell: God knoweth)
2 Corinthians 12:4	How that he was taken vp into Paradise, and heard words which cannot be spoken, which are not possible for man to vtter.
2 Corinthians 12:5	Of such a man will I reioyce: of my selfe will I not reioyce, except it bee of mine infirmities.
2 Corinthians 12:6	For though I woulde reioyce, I should not be a foole, for I will say the trueth: but I refraine, lest any man should thinke of me aboue that hee seeth in me, or that he heareth of me.
2 Corinthians 12:7	And lest I should be exalted out of measure through the aboundance of reuelations, there was giuen vnto me a pricke in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet mee, because I should not be exalted out of measure.
2 Corinthians 12:8	For this thing I besought the Lord thrise, that it might depart from me.
2 Corinthians 12:9	And he said vnto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my power is made perfect through weakenesse. Very gladly therefore will I reioyce rather in mine infirmities, that the power of Christ may dwell in me.
2 Corinthians 12:10	Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities, in reproches, in necessities, in persecutions, in anguish for Christes sake: for when I am weake, then am I strong.
2 Corinthians 12:11	I was a foole to boast my selfe: yee haue compelled mee: for I ought to haue bene commended of you: for in nothing was I inferiour vnto the very chiefe Apostles, though I bee nothing.
2 Corinthians 12:12	The signes of an Apostle were wrought among you with all patience, with signes, and wonders, and great workes.
2 Corinthians 12:13	For what is it, wherein yee were inferiours vnto other Churches, except that I haue not bene slouthfull to your hinderance? forgiue me this wrong.
2 Corinthians 12:14	Behold, the thirde time I am ready to come vnto you, and yet will I not be slouthfull to your hinderance: for I seeke not yours, but you: for the children ought not to laye vp for the fathers, but the fathers for the children.
2 Corinthians 12:15	And I will most gladly bestow, and will be bestowed for your soules: though the more I loue you, the lesse I am loued.
2 Corinthians 12:16	But bee it that I charged you not: yet for as much as I was craftie, I tooke you with guile.
2 Corinthians 12:17	Did I pill you by any of them whom I sent vnto you?
2 Corinthians 12:18	I haue desired Titus, and with him I haue sent a brother: did Titus pill you of any thing? walked we not in the selfe same spirit? walked we not in the same steppes?
2 Corinthians 12:19	Againe, thinke yee that wee excuse our selues vnto you? we speake before God in Christ. But wee doe all thinges, dearely beloued, for your edifying.
2 Corinthians 12:20	For I feare least when I come, I shall not finde you such as I would: and that I shalbe found vnto you such as ye woulde not, and least there be strife, enuying, wrath, contentions, backebitings, whisperings, swellings and discord.
2 Corinthians 12:21	I feare least when I come againe, my God abase me among you, and I shall bewaile many of them which haue sinned already, and haue not repented of the vncleannesse, and fornication, and wantonnesse which they haue committed.
2 Corinthians 13:1	Lo this is the thirde time that I come vnto you. In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall euery worde stand
2 Corinthians 13:2	I tolde you before, and tell you before: as though I had bene present the seconde time, so write I nowe being absent to them which heretofore haue sinned and to all others, that if I come againe, I will not spare,
2 Corinthians 13:3	Seeing that ye seeke experience of Christ, that speaketh in mee, which towarde you is not weake, but is mightie in you.
2 Corinthians 13:4	For though hee was crucified concerning his infirmitie, yet liueth hee through the power of God. And wee no doubt are weake in him, but we shall liue with him, through the power of God towarde you.
2 Corinthians 13:5	Proue your selues whether ye are in the faith: examine your selues: knowe yee not your owne selues, howe that Iesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates?
2 Corinthians 13:6	But I trust that ye shall knowe that wee are not reprobates.
2 Corinthians 13:7	Nowe I pray vnto God that yee doe none euill, not that we should seeme approued, but that ye should doe that which is honest: though we be as reprobates.
2 Corinthians 13:8	For wee can not doe any thing against the trueth, but for the trueth.
2 Corinthians 13:9	For we are glad when wee are weake, and that ye are strong: this also we wish for, euen your perfection.
2 Corinthians 13:10	Therefore write I these thinges being absent, least when I am present, I should vse sharpenesse, according to the power which the Lord hath giuen mee, to edification, and not to destruction.
2 Corinthians 13:11	Finally brethren, fare ye well: be perfect: be of good comfort: be of one minde: liue in peace, and the God of loue and peace shalbe with you.
2 Corinthians 13:12	Greete one another with an holy kisse. All the Saintes salute you.
2 Corinthians 13:13	The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ, and the loue of God, and the communion of the holy Ghost be with you all, Amen. ‘The seconde Epistle to the Corinthians, written from Philippi, a citie in Macedonia, and sent by Titus and Lucas.’

===== BOOK: 2 John =====
2 John 1:1	THE ELDER to the elect Lady, and her children, whom I loue in the trueth: and not I onely, but also all that haue knowen the trueth,
2 John 1:2	For the trueths sake which dwelleth in vs, and shalbe with vs for euer:
2 John 1:3	Grace be with you, mercie and peace from God the Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ the Sonne of the Father, with trueth and loue.
2 John 1:4	I reioyced greatly, that I founde of thy children walking in trueth, as we haue receiued a commandement of the Father.
2 John 1:5	And nowe beseeche I thee, Lady, (not as writing a newe commandement vnto thee, but that same which we had from the beginning) that we loue one another.
2 John 1:6	And this is that loue, that we should walke after his commandements. This commandement is, that as ye haue heard from the beginning, ye should walke in it.
2 John 1:7	For many deceiuers are entred into this worlde, which confesse not that Iesus Christ is come in the flesh. He that is such one, is a deceiuer and an Antichrist.
2 John 1:8	Looke to your selues, that we lose not the things which we haue done, but that we may receiue full reward.
2 John 1:9	Whosoeuer transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that continueth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Sonne.
2 John 1:10	If there come any vnto you, and bring not this doctrine, receiue him not to house, neither bid him, God speede:
2 John 1:11	For he that biddeth him, God speede, is partaker of his euill deedes. Although I had many things to write vnto you, yet I woulde not write with paper and ynke: but I trust to come vnto you, and speake mouth to mouth, that our ioy may be full.
2 John 1:12	The sonnes of thine elect sister greete thee, Amen.

===== BOOK: 2 Kings =====
2 Kings 1:1	Then Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab:
2 Kings 1:2	And Ahaziah fell thorow the lattesse windowe in his vpper chamber which was in Samaria: so he was sicke: then he sent messengers, to whome he saide, Goe, and enquire of Baal-zebub the God of Ekron, if I shall recouer of this my disease.
2 Kings 1:3	Then the Angel of the Lord said to Eliiah the Tishbite, Arise, and goe vp to meete the messengers of the King of Samaria, and say vnto them, Is it not because there is no God in Israel, that ye goe to enquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron?
2 Kings 1:4	Wherefore thus saith the Lord, Thou shalt not come downe from the bed on which thou art gone vp, but shalt die the death. So Eliiah departed.
2 Kings 1:5	And the messengers returned vnto him, to whome he said, Why are ye nowe returned?
2 Kings 1:6	And they answered him, There came a man and met vs, and saide vnto vs, Goe, and returne vnto the King which sent you, and say vnto him, Thus saith the Lord, Is it not because there is no God in Israel, that thou sendest to enquire of Baal-zebub the God of Ekron? Therefore thou shalt not come downe from the bed, on which thou art gone vp, but shalt die ye death.
2 Kings 1:7	And he saide vnto them, What maner of man was he which came and met you, and tolde you these wordes?
2 Kings 1:8	And they said vnto him, He was an hearie man, and girded with a girdle of lether about his loynes. Then sayde he, It is Eliiah the Tishbite.
2 Kings 1:9	Therefore the King sent vnto him a captaine ouer fiftie with his fiftie men, who went vp vnto him: for beholde, he sate on the toppe of a mountaine, and he saide vnto him, O man of God, the King hath commanded that thou come downe.
2 Kings 1:10	But Eliiah answered, and saide to the captaine ouer the fiftie, If that I be a man of God, let fire come downe from the heauen, and deuoure thee and thy fiftie. So fire came downe from the heauen and deuoured him and his fiftie.
2 Kings 1:11	Againe also he sent vnto him another captaine ouer fiftie, with his fiftie. Who spake, and saide vnto him, O man of God, thus the King commandeth, Come downe quickely.
2 Kings 1:12	But Eliiah answered, and saide vnto them, If I be a man of God, let fire come downe from the heauen, and deuoure thee and thy fiftie. So fire came downe from the heauen, and deuoured him and his fiftie.
2 Kings 1:13	Yet againe he sent the third captaine ouer fiftie with his fiftie. And the thirde captaine ouer fiftie went vp, and came, and fell on his knees before Eliiah, and besought him, and saide vnto him, O man of God, I pray thee, let my life and the life of these thy fiftie seruants be precious in thy sight.
2 Kings 1:14	Beholde, there came fire downe from the heauen and deuoured the two former captaines ouer fiftie with their fifties: therefore let my life nowe be precious in thy sight.
2 Kings 1:15	And the Angel of the Lord said vnto Eliiah, Goe downe with him, be not afraide of his presence. So he arose, and went downe with him vnto the King.
2 Kings 1:16	And he saide vnto him, Thus saith the Lord, Because thou hast sent messengers to enquire of Baal-zebub the god of Ekron, (was it not because there was no God in Israel to inquire of his worde?) therefore thou shalt not come downe off the bed, on which thou art gone vp, but shalt die the death.
2 Kings 1:17	So he dyed according to the worde of the Lord which Eliiah had spoken. And Iehoram began to reigne in his steade, in the seconde yeere of Iehoram the sonne of Iehoshaphat King of Iudah, because he had no sonne.
2 Kings 1:18	Concerning the rest of the actes of Ahaziah, that he did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 2:1	And when the Lord would take vp Eliiah into heauen by a whirle winde, Eliiah went with Elisha from Gilgal.
2 Kings 2:2	Then Eliiah saide to Elisha, Tarie here, I pray thee: for the Lord hath sent me to Bethel. But Elisha said, As the Lord liueth, and as thy soule liueth, I will not leaue thee. So they came downe to Beth-el.
2 Kings 2:3	And the children of the Prophets that were at Beth-el, came out to Elisha, and said vnto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take thy master from thine head this day? And he said, Yea, I knowe it: holde ye your peace.
2 Kings 2:4	Againe Eliiah saide vnto him, Elisha, tarie here, I pray thee: for the Lord hath sent me to Iericho: But he said, As the Lord liueth, and as thy soule liueth, I will not leaue thee. So they came to Iericho.
2 Kings 2:5	And the children of the Prophets that were at Iericho, came to Elisha, and saide vnto him, Knowest thou, that the Lord will take thy master from thine head this day? And he sayde, Yea, I knowe it: holde ye your peace.
2 Kings 2:6	Moreouer Eliiah saide vnto him, Tarie, I pray thee, here: for the Lord hath sent me to Iorden. But he saide, As the Lord liueth, and as thy soule liueth, I will not leaue thee. So they went both together.
2 Kings 2:7	And fiftie men of the sonnes of the Prophets went and stoode on the other side a farre off, and they two stoode by Iorden.
2 Kings 2:8	Then Eliiah tooke his cloke, and wrapt it together, and smote the waters, and they were deuided hither and thither, and they twaine went ouer on the dry lande.
2 Kings 2:9	Nowe when they were passed ouer, Eliiah saide vnto Elisha, Aske what I shall doe for thee before I be taken from thee. And Elisha saide, I pray thee, let thy Spirit be double vpon me.
2 Kings 2:10	And he saide, Thou hast asked an hard thing: yet if thou see me when I am taken from thee, thou shalt haue it so: and if not, it shall not be.
2 Kings 2:11	And as they went walking and talking, beholde, there appeared a charet of fire, and horses of fire, and did separate them twaine. So Eliiah went vp by a whirle winde into heauen.
2 Kings 2:12	And Elisha saw it, and he cryed, My father, my father, the charet of Israel, and the horsemen thereof: and he sawe him no more: and he tooke his owne clothes, and rent them in two pieces.
2 Kings 2:13	He tooke vp also the cloke of Eliiah that fell from him, and returned, and stoode by the banke of Iorden.
2 Kings 2:14	After, he tooke the cloke of Eliiah, that fell from him, and smote the waters, and sayde, Where is the Lord God of Eliiah? And so he also, after he had striken the waters, so that they were deuided this way and that way, went ouer, euen Elisha.
2 Kings 2:15	And when the children of the Prophets, which were at Iericho, saw him on the other side, they sayde, The Spirite of Eliiah doeth rest on Elisha: and they came to meete him, and fell to the grounde before him,
2 Kings 2:16	And said vnto him, Beholde nowe, there be with thy seruants fiftie strong men: let them go, we pray thee, and seeke thy master, if so be the Spirite of the Lord hath taken him vp, and cast him vpon some mountaine, or into some valley. But he said, Ye shall not sende.
2 Kings 2:17	Yet they were instant vpon him, til he was ashamed: wherefore he saide, Sende. So they sent fiftie men, which sought three dayes, but founde him not.
2 Kings 2:18	Therefore they returned to him, (for he taryed at Iericho) and he said vnto them, Did not I say vnto you, Goe not?
2 Kings 2:19	And the men of the citie saide vnto Elisha, Beholde, we pray thee: the situation of this citie is pleasant, as thou, my lorde, seest, but the water is naught, and the ground baren.
2 Kings 2:20	Then he saide, Bring me a newe cruse, and put salt therein. And they brought it to him.
2 Kings 2:21	And he went vnto the spring of the waters, and cast there the salt, and said, Thus saith the Lord, I haue healed this water: death shall no more come thereof, neither barennesse to the ground.
2 Kings 2:22	So the waters were healed vntill this day, according to the worde of Elisha which hee had spoken.
2 Kings 2:23	And he went vp from thence vnto Beth-el. And as he was going vp the way, litle children came out of the citie, and mocked him, and saide vnto him, Come vp, thou balde head, come vp, thou balde head.
2 Kings 2:24	And he turned backe, and looked on them, and cursed them in the name of the Lord. And two beares came out of the forest, and tare in pieces two and fourtie children of them.
2 Kings 2:25	So he went from thence to mount Carmel, and from thence he returned to Samaria.
2 Kings 3:1	Nowe Iehoram the sonne of Ahab beganne to reigne ouer Israel in Samaria, the eighteenth yeere of Iehoshaphat King of Iudah, and reigned twelue yeeres.
2 Kings 3:2	And he wrought euill in the sight of the Lord, but not like his father nor like his mother: for he tooke away the image of Baal that his father had made.
2 Kings 3:3	Neuerthelesse, he cleaued vnto the sinnes of Ieroboam, the sonne of Nebat, which made Israel to sinne, and departed not therefrom.
2 Kings 3:4	Then Mesha King of Moab had store of sheepe, and rendred vnto the King of Israel an hundreth thousande lambes, and an hundreth thousande rammes with the wooll.
2 Kings 3:5	But when Ahab was dead, the king of Moab rebelled against the King of Israel.
2 Kings 3:6	Therefore King Iehoram went out of Samaria the same season, and nombred all Israel,
2 Kings 3:7	And went, and sent to Iehoshaphat King of Iudah, saying, The King of Moab hath rebelled against me: wilt thou goe with me to battell against Moab? And he answered, I will goe vp: for I am, as thou art, my people, as thy people, and mine horses as thine horses.
2 Kings 3:8	Then said he, What way shall we goe vp? And he answered, The way of the wildernesse of Edom.
2 Kings 3:9	So went the King of Israel and the king of Iudah, and the King of Edom, and when they had compassed the way seuen dayes, they had no water for the hoste, nor for the cattell that followed them.
2 Kings 3:10	Therefore the King of Israel sayde, Alas, that the Lord hath called these three Kings, to giue them into the hand of Moab.
2 Kings 3:11	But Iehoshaphat saide, Is there not here a Prophet of the Lord, that we may inquire of the Lord by him? And one of the King of Israels seruants answered, and said, Here is Elisha the sonne of Shaphat, which powred water on the handes of Eliiah.
2 Kings 3:12	Then Iehoshaphat saide, The worde of the Lord is with him. Therefore the King of Israel, and Iehoshaphat, and the King of Edom went downe to him.
2 Kings 3:13	And Elisha sayde vnto the King of Israel, What haue I to doe with thee? get thee to the prophets of thy father and to the prophets of thy mother. And the King of Israel saide vnto him, Nay: for the Lord hath called these three Kings, to giue them into the hande of Moab.
2 Kings 3:14	Then Elisha said, As the Lord of hostes liueth, in whose sight I stande, if it were not, that I regarde the presence of Iehoshaphat the King of Iudah, I woulde not haue looked towarde thee, nor seene thee.
2 Kings 3:15	But nowe bring me a minstrel. And when the minstrel played, the hand of the Lord came vpon him.
2 Kings 3:16	And he saide, Thus saith the Lord, Make this valley full of ditches.
2 Kings 3:17	For thus saith the Lord, Ye shall neither see winde nor see raine, yet the valley shalbe filled with water, that ye may drinke, both ye and your cattel, and your beastes.
2 Kings 3:18	But this is a small thing in the sight of the Lord: for he will giue Moab into your hande.
2 Kings 3:19	And ye shall smite euery strong towne and euery chiefe citie, and shall fell euery faire tree, and shall stoppe all the fountaines of water, and marre euery good fielde with stones.
2 Kings 3:20	And in the morning whe the meat offring was offred, beholde, there came water by the way of Edom: and the countrey was filled with water.
2 Kings 3:21	And when al the Moabites heard that the Kings were come vp to fight against them, they gathered all that was able to put on harnesse, and vpwarde, and stood in their border.
2 Kings 3:22	And they rose earely in the morning, when the sunne arose vpon the water, and the Moabites saw the water ouer against them, as red as blood.
2 Kings 3:23	And they saide, This is blood the Kings are surely slaine, and one hath smitten another: now therefore, Moab, to the spoyle.
2 Kings 3:24	And when they came to the host of Israel, the Israelites arose vp, and smote the Moabites, so that they fled before them, but they inuaded them, and smote Moab.
2 Kings 3:25	And they destroyed the cities: and on all the good field euery man cast his stone, and filled them and they stopt all the fountaines of water, and felled all the good trees: onely in Kirharaseth left they the stones thereof: howebeit they went about it with slings, and smote it.
2 Kings 3:26	And when the King of Moab saw that the battel was too sore for him, he tooke with him seuen hudreth men that drew the sword, to break through vnto the King of Edom: but they could not.
2 Kings 3:27	Then he tooke his eldest sonne, that should haue reigned in his stead, and offered him for a burnt offring vpon the wall: so that Israel was sore grieued, and they departed from him, and returned to their countrey.
2 Kings 4:1	And one of the wiues of the sonnes of the Prophets cryed vnto Elisha, saying, Thy seruant mine husband is dead, and thou knowest, that thy seruant did feare the Lord: and the creditour is come to take my two sonnes to bee his bondmen.
2 Kings 4:2	Then Elisha saide vnto her, What shall I do for thee? tell mee, what hast thou at home? And she sayd, Thine handmayd hath nothing at home, saue a pitcher of oyle.
2 Kings 4:3	And he sayde, Goe, and borowe thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbours, emptie vessels, and spare not.
2 Kings 4:4	And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the doore vpon thee and vpon thy sonnes, and powre out into all those vessels, and set aside those that are full.
2 Kings 4:5	So shee departed from him, and shut the doore vpon her, and vpon her sonnes. And they brought to her, and she powred out.
2 Kings 4:6	And when the vessels were full, shee sayde vnto her sonne, Bring mee yet a vessel. And hee said vnto her, There is no moe vessels. And the oyle ceased.
2 Kings 4:7	Then shee came and tolde the man of God. And he saide, Goe, and sell the oyle, and pay them that thou art in debt vnto, and liue thou and thy children of the rest.
2 Kings 4:8	And on a time Elisha came to Shunem, and there a woman of great estimation constrained him to eate bread: and as he passed by, he turned in thither to eate bread.
2 Kings 4:9	And she sayde vnto her husband, Beholde, I know now, that this is an holy man of God that passeth by vs continually.
2 Kings 4:10	Let vs make him a litle chamber, I pray thee, with walles, and let vs set him there a bed, and a table, and a stoole, and a candlesticke, that hee may turne in thither when hee commeth to vs.
2 Kings 4:11	And on a day, hee came thither and turned into the chamber, and lay therein,
2 Kings 4:12	And sayd to Gehazi his seruant, Call this Shunammite: and when hee called her, she stood before him.
2 Kings 4:13	Then he sayd vnto him, Say vnto her now, Beholde, thou hast had all this great care for vs, what shall we doe for thee? Is there any thing to bee spoken for thee to the King or to the captaine of the hoste? And shee answered, I dwell among mine owne people.
2 Kings 4:14	Againe he sayde, What is then to be done for her? Then Gehazi answered, In deede she hath no sonne, and her husband is olde.
2 Kings 4:15	Then said he, Cal her. And hee called her, and shee stoode in the doore.
2 Kings 4:16	And he said, At this time appointed, according to the time of life, thou shalt embrace a sonne. And she sayd, Oh my Lord, thou man of God, doe not lye vnto thine handmayd.
2 Kings 4:17	So the woman conceiued, and bare a sonne at that same season, according to the time of life, that Elisha had sayd vnto her.
2 Kings 4:18	And when the childe was growen, it fell on a day, that he went out to his father, and to the reapers.
2 Kings 4:19	And he sayde to his father, Mine head, mine head. Who sayd to his seruant, Beare him to his mother.
2 Kings 4:20	And hee tooke him and brought him to his mother, and hee sate on her knees till noone, and dyed.
2 Kings 4:21	Then shee went vp, and layed him on the bed of the man of God, and shut the doore vpon him, and went out.
2 Kings 4:22	Then she called to her husband, and sayd, Send with me, I pray thee, one of the yong men and one of the asses: for I will haste to the man of God, and come againe.
2 Kings 4:23	And he sayd, Wherefore wilt thou goe to him to day? it is neither newe moone nor Sabbath day. And she answered, All shalbe well.
2 Kings 4:24	Then she sadled an asse, and sayde to her seruant, Driue, and goe forward: staye not for me to get vp, except I bid thee.
2 Kings 4:25	So she went, and came vnto the man of God to mount Carmel. And when the man of God sawe her ouer against him, he sayd to Gehazi his seruant, Beholde, the Shunammite.
2 Kings 4:26	Runne nowe, I say, to meete her, and say vnto her, Art thou in health? is thine husband in health? and is the child in health? And she answered, We are in health.
2 Kings 4:27	And when shee came to the man of God vnto the moutaine, she caught him by his feete: and Gehazi went to her, to thrust her away: but the man of God said, Let her alone: for her soule is vexed within her, and the Lord hath hid it from me, and hath not told it mee.
2 Kings 4:28	Then she said, Did I desire a sonne of my lord? did I not say, Deceiue me not?
2 Kings 4:29	Then he sayd to Gehazi, Gird thy loynes, and take my staffe in thine hand, and goe thy way: if thou meete any, salute him not: and if any salute thee, answere him not: and laye my staffe vpon the face of the childe.
2 Kings 4:30	And the mother of the childe sayde, As the Lord liueth, and as thy soule liueth, I will not leaue thee. Therefore he arose, and followed her.
2 Kings 4:31	But Gehazi was gone before them, and had layed the staffe vpon the face of the childe, but he neither spake nor heard: wherefore hee returned to meete him, and told him, saying, The childe is not waken.
2 Kings 4:32	Then came Elisha into the house, and beholde, the childe was dead, and layed vpon his bedde.
2 Kings 4:33	He went in therefore, and shut the doore vpon them twayne, and prayed vnto the Lord.
2 Kings 4:34	After he went vp, and lay vpon the child, and put his mouth on his mouth, and his eyes vpon his eies, and his hands vpon his handes, and stretched himselfe vpon him, and the flesh of the child waxed warme.
2 Kings 4:35	And hee went from him, and walked vp and downe in the house, and went vp and spred himselfe vpon him: then the childe neesed seuen times, and opened his eyes.
2 Kings 4:36	Then he called Gehazi, and sayd, Call this Shunammite. So he called her, which came in vnto him. And he said vnto her, Take thy sonne.
2 Kings 4:37	And she came, and fell at his feete, and bowed her selfe to the ground, and tooke vp her sonne, and went out.
2 Kings 4:38	Afterward Elisha returned to Gilgal, and a famine was in the land, and the children of the Prophets dwelt with him. And hee sayd vnto his seruant, Set on the great pot, and seethe pottage for the children of the Prophets.
2 Kings 4:39	And one went out into the fielde, to gather herbes, and founde, as it were, a wilde vine, and gathered thereof wilde gourdes his garment ful, and came and shred them into the pot of pottage: for they knew it not.
2 Kings 4:40	So they powred out for the men to eate: and when they did eate of the pottage, they cryed out, and sayde, O thou man of God, death is in the pot: and they could not eate thereof.
2 Kings 4:41	Then he said, Bring meale. And hee cast it into the potte, and sayd, Powre out for the people, that they may eate: and there was none euill in the pot.
2 Kings 4:42	Then came a man from Baal-shalisha, and brought the man of God bread of the first fruits, euen twenty loaues of barley, and full eares of corne in the huske. And hee saide, Giue vnto the people, that they may eate.
2 Kings 4:43	And his seruant answered, How shoulde I set this before an hundreth men? He sayd againe, Giue it vnto the people, that they may eate: for thus sayth the Lord, They shall eate, and there shall remaine.
2 Kings 4:44	So he set it before them, and they did eate, and left ouer, according to the word of the Lord.
2 Kings 5:1	Now was there one Naaman captaine of the hoste of the King of Aram, a great man, and honourable in the sight of his lorde, because that by him the Lord had deliuered the Aramites. He also was a mightie man and valiant, but a leper.
2 Kings 5:2	And the Aramites had gone out by bands, and had taken a litle mayde of the land of Israel, and shee serued Naamans wife.
2 Kings 5:3	And she sayd vnto her mistres, Would God my lord were with the Prophet that is in Samaria, he would soone deliuer him of his leprosie.
2 Kings 5:4	And he went in, and tolde his lorde, saying, Thus and thus saith the mayde that is of the land of Israel.
2 Kings 5:5	And the King of Aram sayde, Goe thy way thither, and I will send a letter vnto the King of Israel. And he departed, and tooke with him ten talents of siluer, and sixe thousand pieces of golde, and ten change of rayments,
2 Kings 5:6	And brought the letter to the King of Israel to this effect, Now when this letter is come vnto thee, vnderstand, that I haue sent thee Naaman my seruant, that thou maiest heale him of his leprosie.
2 Kings 5:7	And when the King of Israel had read the letter, he rent his clothes, and sayde, Am I God, to kill and to giue life, that hee doth send to mee, that I should heale a man from his leprosie? wherfore consider, I pray you, and see howe he seeketh a quarel against me.
2 Kings 5:8	But when Elisha the man of God had heard that the King of Israel had rent his clothes, hee sent vnto the King, saying, Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothes? Let him come now to me, and he shall knowe that there is a Prophet in Israel.
2 Kings 5:9	Then Naaman came with his horses, and with his charets, and stoode at the doore of the house of Elisha.
2 Kings 5:10	And Elisha sent a messenger vnto him, saying, Go and wash thee in Iorden seuen times, and thy flesh shall come againe to thee, and thou shalt be clensed.
2 Kings 5:11	But Naaman was wroth and went away, and sayde, Beholde, I thought with my selfe, Hee will surely come out, and stande, and call on the Name of the Lord his God and put his hand on the place, and heale the leprosie.
2 Kings 5:12	Are not Abanah and Pharpar, riuers of Damascus, better then all the waters of Israel? may I not washe mee in them, and bee cleansed? so hee turned, and departed in displeasure.
2 Kings 5:13	But his seruants came, and spake vnto him, and sayd, Father, if the Prophet had commanded thee a great thing, wouldest thou not haue done it? howe much rather then, when hee sayth to thee, Wash and be cleane?
2 Kings 5:14	Then went he downe, and washed him selfe seuen times in Iorden, according to the saying of the man of God: and his flesh came againe, like vnto ye flesh of a litle child, and he was cleane.
2 Kings 5:15	And hee turned againe to the man of God, hee, and all his companie, and came and stood before him, and sayd, Behold, now I knowe that there is no God in all the world, but in Israel: now therefore, I pray thee, take a reward of thy seruant.
2 Kings 5:16	But hee sayde, As the Lord liueth (before whom I stand) I wil not receiue it. And he would haue constrained him to receiue it, but he refused.
2 Kings 5:17	Moreouer Naaman sayde, Shall there not be giuen to thy seruant two mules loade of this earth? for thy seruant will henceforth offer neither burnt sacrifice nor offring vnto any other god, saue vnto the Lord.
2 Kings 5:18	Herein the Lord bee mercifull vnto thy seruant, that when my master goeth into the house of Rimmon, to worship there, and leaneth on mine hand, and I bowe my selfe in the house of Rimmon: when I doe bowe downe, I say, in the house of Rimmon, the Lord be mercifull vnto thy seruant in this point.
2 Kings 5:19	Vnto whome he saide, Goe in peace. So he departed from him about halfe a dayes iourney of grounde.
2 Kings 5:20	And Gehazi the seruant of Elisha the man of God sayde, Beholde, my master hath spared this Aramite Naaman, receiuing not those things at his hand that he brought: as the Lord liueth, I will runne after him, and take somewhat of him.
2 Kings 5:21	So Gehazi followed speedily after Naaman. And when Naaman sawe him running after him, he light downe from the charet to meete him, and said, Is all well?
2 Kings 5:22	And he answered, All is well: my master hath set me, saying, Behold, there be come to me, euen nowe from mount Ephraim two yong men of the children of the Prophets: giue them, I pray thee, a talent of siluer, and two change of garmets.
2 Kings 5:23	And Naaman saide, Yea, take two talents: and he compelled him, and bound two talents of siluer in two bagges, with two change of garments, and gaue them vnto two of his seruants, that they might beare them before him.
2 Kings 5:24	And when he came to the towre, he tooke them out of their handes, and laide them in the house, and sent away the men: and they departed.
2 Kings 5:25	Then he went in, and stoode before his master. And Elisha said vnto him, Whence commest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy seruant went no whither.
2 Kings 5:26	But he saide vnto him, Went not mine heart with thee when the man turned againe from his charet to meete thee? Is this a time to take money, and to receiue garments, and oliues, and vineyardes, and sheepe, and oxen, and men seruants, and maide seruants?
2 Kings 5:27	The leprosie therefore of Naaman shall cleaue vnto thee, and to thy seede for euer. And he went out from his presence a leper white as snowe.
2 Kings 6:1	And the children of the Prophets saide vnto Elisha, Behold, we pray thee, the place where we dwell with thee, is too litle for vs.
2 Kings 6:2	Let vs nowe goe to Iorden, that we may take thence euery man a beame, and make vs a place to dwell in. And he answered, Goe.
2 Kings 6:3	And one said, Vouchsafe, I pray thee, to go with thy seruants, and he answered, I will goe.
2 Kings 6:4	So he went with them, and when they came to Iorden, they cut downe wood.
2 Kings 6:5	And as one was felling of a tree, the yron fell into the water: then he cryed, and said, Alas master, it was but borowed.
2 Kings 6:6	And the man of God saide, Where fell it? And he shewed him the place. Then he cut downe a piece of wood, and cast in thither, and he caused the yron to swimme.
2 Kings 6:7	Then he saide, Take it vp to thee. And he stretched out his hand, and tooke it.
2 Kings 6:8	Then the King of Aram warred against Israel, and tooke counsell with his seruants, and said, In such and such a place shalbe my campe.
2 Kings 6:9	Therefore the man of God sent vnto the King of Israel, saying, Beware thou goe not ouer to such a place: for there the Aramites are come downe.
2 Kings 6:10	So the King of Israel sent to the place which the man of God tolde him, and warned him of, and saued himselfe from thence, not once, nor twise.
2 Kings 6:11	And the heart of the King of Aram was troubled for this thing: therefore he called his seruants and saide vnto them, Will ye not shewe me, which of vs bewrayeth our counsel to the king of Israel?
2 Kings 6:12	Then one of his seruants saide, None, my lorde, O King, but Elisha the Prophet that is in Israel, telleth the King of Israel, euen the wordes that thou speakest in thy priuie chamber.
2 Kings 6:13	And he said, Goe, and espie where he is, that I may sende and fetch him. And one tolde him, saying, Beholde, he is in Dothan.
2 Kings 6:14	So he sent thither horses, and charets, and a mightie hoste: and they came by night, and compassed the citie.
2 Kings 6:15	And when the seruant of the man of God arose earely to goe out, beholde, an hoste compassed the citie with horses and charets. Then his seruant sayde vnto him, Alas master, howe shall we doe?
2 Kings 6:16	And he answered, Feare not: for they that be with vs, are moe then they that be with them.
2 Kings 6:17	Then Elisha prayed, and saide, Lord, I beseech thee, open his eyes, that he may see. And the Lord opened the eyes of the seruant, and he looked, and beholde, the mountaine was full of horses and charets of fyre round about Elisha.
2 Kings 6:18	So they came downe to him, but Elisha prayed vnto the Lord, and said, Smite this people, I pray thee, with blindnesse. And he smote them with blindnes, according to the worde of Elisha.
2 Kings 6:19	And Elisha said vnto them, This is not the way, neither is this the citie: follow me, and I will leade you to the man whome ye seeke. But he ledde them to Samaria.
2 Kings 6:20	And when they were come to Samaria, Elisha saide, Lord, open their eyes that they may see. And the Lord opened their eyes, and they saw, and beholde, they were in the mids of Samaria.
2 Kings 6:21	And the King of Israel sayde vnto Elisha when he sawe them, My father, shall I smite them, shall I smite them?
2 Kings 6:22	And he answered, Thou shalt not smite them: doest thou not smite them that thou hast taken with thy sworde, and with thy bowe? but set bread and water before them, that they may eate and drinke and goe to their master.
2 Kings 6:23	And he made great preparation for them: and when they had eaten and drunken, he sent them away: and they went to their master. So ye bands of Aram came no more into the land of Israel.
2 Kings 6:24	But afterward Ben-hadad King of Aram gathered all his hoste, and went vp, and besieged Samaria.
2 Kings 6:25	So there was a great famine in Samaria: for loe, they besieged it vntill an asses head was at foure score pieces of siluer, and the fourth part of a kab of doues doung at fiue pieces of siluer.
2 Kings 6:26	And as the King of Israel was going vpon the wall, there cryed a woman vnto him, saying, Helpe, my lord, O King.
2 Kings 6:27	And he said, Seeing the Lord doeth not succour thee, howe shoulde I helpe thee with the barne, or with the wine presse?
2 Kings 6:28	Also the King said vnto her, What ayleth thee? And she answered, This woman sayde vnto me, Giue thy sonne, that we may eate him to day, and we will eate my sonne to morowe,
2 Kings 6:29	So we sod my sonne, and did eate him: and I saide to her the day after, Giue thy sonne, that we may eate him, but she hath hid her sonne.
2 Kings 6:30	And when the King had heard the wordes of the woman, he rent his clothes, (and as he went vpon the wall, the people looked, and behold, he had sackecloth within vpon his flesh)
2 Kings 6:31	And he saide, God doe so to me and more also, if the head of Elisha the sonne of Shaphat shall stande on him this day.
2 Kings 6:32	(Nowe Elisha sate in his house, and the Elders sate with him.) And the King sent a man before him: but before the messenger came to him, he saide to the Elders, See ye not howe this murtherers sonne hath sent to take away mine head? take heede when the messenger commeth, and shut the doore and handle him roughly at the doore: is not the sounde of his masters feete behinde him?
2 Kings 6:33	While he yet talked with them, beholde, the messenger came downe vnto him, and saide, Behold, this euill commeth of the Lord: should I attende on the Lord any longer?
2 Kings 7:1	Then Elisha saide, Heare ye the worde of the Lord: thus saith the Lord, To morowe this time a measure of fine floure shalbe solde for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel in the gate of Samaria.
2 Kings 7:2	Then a prince, on whose hande the King leaned, answered the man of God, and saide, Though the Lord would make windowes in the heauen, could this thing come to passe? And he said, Beholde, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but thou shalt not eate thereof.
2 Kings 7:3	Nowe there were foure leprous men at the entring in of the gate: and they saide one to an other, Why sitte we here vntill we die?
2 Kings 7:4	If we say, We will enter into the citie, the famine is in the citie, and we shall die there: and if we sit here, we dye also. Nowe therefore come, and let vs fall into the campe of the Aramites: if they saue our liues, we shall liue: and if they kill vs, we are but dead.
2 Kings 7:5	So they rose vp in the twilight, to goe to the campe of the Aramites: and when they were come to the vtmost part of the campe of the Aramites, loe, there was no man there.
2 Kings 7:6	For the Lord had caused the campe of the Aramites to heare a noyse of charets and a noise of horses, and a noise of a great armie, so that they sayde one to another, Beholde, the King of Israel hath hired against vs the Kings of the Hittites, and the Kings of the Egyptians to come vpon vs.
2 Kings 7:7	Wherefore they arose, and fled in the twilight, and left their tentes and their horses, and their asses, euen the campe as it was, and fledde for their liues.
2 Kings 7:8	And when these lepers came to the vtmost part of the campe, they entred into one tent, and did eate and drinke, and caryed thence siluer and golde, and raiment, and went and hid it: after they returned, and entred into another tent, and caryed thence also, and went and hid it.
2 Kings 7:9	Then saide one to another, We doe not well: this day is a day of good tidings, and we holde our peace. if we tary till day light, some mischiefe will come vpon vs. Nowe therefore, come, let vs goe, and tell the Kings housholde.
2 Kings 7:10	So they came, and called vnto the porters of the citie, and tolde them, saying, We came to the campe of the Aramites, and loe, there was no man there, neither voyce of man, but horses tyed and asses tyed: and the tents are as they were.
2 Kings 7:11	And the porters cryed and declared to the Kings house within.
2 Kings 7:12	Then the King arose in the night, and saide vnto his seruants, I wil shew you now, what the Aramites haue done vnto vs. They know that we are affamished, therefore they are gone out of the campe to hide them selues in the fielde, saying, When they come out of the citie, we shall catch them aliue, and get into the citie.
2 Kings 7:13	And one of his seruants answered, and said, Let me take now fiue of the horses that remaine, and are left in the citie, (behold, they are euen as all the multitude of Israel that are left therein: beholde, I say, they are as the multitude of the Israelites that are consumed) and we wil send to see.
2 Kings 7:14	So they tooke two charets of horses, and the King sent after the hoste of the Aramites, saying, Goe and see.
2 Kings 7:15	And they went after them vnto Iorden, and loe, all the way was full of clothes and vessels which the Aramites had cast from them in their hast: and the messengers returned, and told ye King.
2 Kings 7:16	Then the people went out and spoyled the campe of the Aramites: so a measure of fine floure was at a shekel, and two measures of barley at a shekel according to the word of the Lord.
2 Kings 7:17	And the King gaue the prince (on whose hande he leaned) the charge of the gate, and the people trode vpon him in the gate, and he dyed, as the man of God had saide, which spake it, when the King came downe to him.
2 Kings 7:18	And it came to passe, as the man of God had spoken to the King, saying, Two measures of barley at a shekel, and a measure of fine floure shall be at a shekel, to morowe about this time in the gate of Samaria.
2 Kings 7:19	But the prince had answered the man of God, and saide, Though the Lord would make windowes in the heauen, coulde it come so to passe? And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but thou shalt not eate thereof.
2 Kings 7:20	And so it came vnto him: for the people trode vpon him in the gate, and he dyed.
2 Kings 8:1	Then spake Elisha vnto the woman, whose sonne he had restored to life, saying, Vp, and goe, thou, and thine house, and soiourne where thou canst soiourne: for the Lord hath called for a famine, and it commeth also vpon the land seuen yeeres.
2 Kings 8:2	And the woman arose, and did after the saying of the man of God, and went both shee and her housholde and soiourned in the lande of the Philistims seuen yeeres.
2 Kings 8:3	And at the seuen yeeres ende, the woman returned out of the lande of the Philistims, and went out to call vpon the King for her house and for her land.
2 Kings 8:4	And the King talked with Gehazi the seruant of the man of God, saying, Tell mee, I pray thee, all the great actes, that Elisha hath done.
2 Kings 8:5	And as he told the King, howe he had restored one dead to life, behold, the woman, whose sonne he had raised to life, called vpon the King for her house and for her land. Then Gehazi sayd, My lorde, O King, this is the woman, and this is her sonne, whom Elisha restored to life.
2 Kings 8:6	And when the King asked the woman, shee told him: so the King appoynted her an Eunuch, saying, Restore thou all that are hers, and all the fruites of her landes since the day shee left the land, euen vntill this time.
2 Kings 8:7	Then Elisha came to Damascus, and Ben-hadad the King of Aram was sicke, and one told him, saying, The man of God is come hither.
2 Kings 8:8	And the king sayd vnto Hazael, Take a present in thine hande, and goe meete the man of God, that thou mayest inquire of ye Lord by him, saying, Shall I recouer of this disease?
2 Kings 8:9	So Hazael went to meete him, and tooke the present in his hand, and of euery good thing of Damascus, euen the burden of fourtie camels, and came and stood before him, and sayde, Thy sonne Ben-hadad King of Aram hath sent me to thee, saying, Shall I recouer of this disease?
2 Kings 8:10	And Elisha sayd to him, Goe, and say vnto him, Thou shalt recouer: howbeit the Lord hath shewed me, that he shall surely dye.
2 Kings 8:11	And hee looked vpon him stedfastly, till Hazael was ashamed, and the man of God wept.
2 Kings 8:12	And Hazael sayde, Why weepeth my lord? And he answered, Because I knowe the euill that thou shalt do vnto the children of Israel: for their strong cities shalt thou set on fire, and their yong men shalt thou slay with the sworde, and shalt dash their infantes against the stones, and rent in pieces their women with child.
2 Kings 8:13	Then Hazael said, What? is thy seruant a dog, that I should doe this great thing? And Elisha answered, The Lord hath shewed mee, that thou shalt be King of Aram.
2 Kings 8:14	So he departed from Elisha, and came to his master, who said to him, What saide Elisha to thee? And he answered, Hee tolde mee that thou shouldest recouer.
2 Kings 8:15	And on the morow he tooke a thick cloth and dipt in it water, and spread it on his face, and hee dyed: and Hazael reigned in his stead.
2 Kings 8:16	Now in the fift yere of Ioram ye sonne of Ahab King of Israel, and of Iehoshaphat King of Iudah, Iehoram the sonne of Iehoshaphat King of Iudah began to reigne.
2 Kings 8:17	He was two and thirtie yere olde, when he began to reigne: and hee reigned eight yeere in Ierusalem.
2 Kings 8:18	And hee walked in the wayes of the Kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab: for the daughter of Ahab was his wife, and hee did euill in the sight of the Lord.
2 Kings 8:19	Yet the Lord would not destroy Iudah, for Dauid his seruants sake, as he had promised him to giue him a light, and to his children for euer.
2 Kings 8:20	In those dayes Edom rebelled from vnder the hand of Iudah, and made a King ouer themselues.
2 Kings 8:21	Therefore Ioram went to Zair, and all his charets with him, and he arose by night, and smote the Edomites which were about him with the captains of the charets, and the people fled into their tents.
2 Kings 8:22	So Edom rebelled from vnder the hand of Iudah vnto this day. then Libnah rebelled at that same time.
2 Kings 8:23	Concerning the rest of the actes of Ioram and all that hee did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
2 Kings 8:24	And Ioram slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the citie of Dauid. And Ahaziah his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Kings 8:25	In the twelft yere of Ioram the sonne of Ahab King of Israel did Ahaziah the sonne of Iehoram King of Iudah begin to reigne.
2 Kings 8:26	Two and twentie yeere olde was Ahaziah when he began to reigne, and he reigned one yere in Ierusalem, and his mothers name was Athaliah the daughter of Omri King of Israel.
2 Kings 8:27	And he walked in the way of the house of Ahab, and did euill in the sight of the Lord, like the house of Ahab: for hee was the sonne in law of the house of Ahab.
2 Kings 8:28	And he went with Ioram the sonne of Ahab to warre against Hazael King of Aram in Ramoth Gilead, and the Aramites smote Ioram.
2 Kings 8:29	And King Ioram returned to bee healed in Izreel of the wounds which ye Aramites had giuen him at Ramah, whe he fought against Hazael King of Aram. And Ahaziah the sonne of Iehoram King of Iudah went downe to see Ioram the sonne of Ahab in Izreel, because he was sicke.
2 Kings 9:1	Then Elisha the Prophet called one of ye children of the Prophets, and sayde vnto him, Gird thy loynes and take this boxe of oyle in thine hand and get thee to Ramoth Gilead.
2 Kings 9:2	And when thou commest thither, looke where is Iehu ye sonne of Iehoshaphat, the sonne of Nimshi, and go, and make him arise vp from among his brethren, and leade him to a secret chamber.
2 Kings 9:3	Then take the boxe of oyle and powre it on his head, and say, Thus sayth the Lord, I haue anointed thee for King ouer Israel. then open the doore, and flee without any tarying.
2 Kings 9:4	So the seruat of ye Prophet gate him to Ramoth Gilead.
2 Kings 9:5	And when he came in, behold, the captaines of the armie were sitting. And he sayde, I haue a message to thee, O captaine. And Iehu sayd, Vnto which of all vs? And he answered, To thee, O captaine.
2 Kings 9:6	And he arose, and went into the house, and he powred the oyle on his head and sayde vnto him, Thus sayth the Lord God of Israel, I haue anointed thee for King ouer the people of the Lord, euen ouer Israel.
2 Kings 9:7	And thou shalt smite the house of Ahab thy master, that I may auenge the blood of my seruants the Prophets, and the blood of al the seruants of the Lord of the hand of Iezebel.
2 Kings 9:8	For the whole house of Ahab shalbe destroied: and I will cut off from Ahab, him that maketh water against the wall, as well him that is shut vp, as him that is left in Israel.
2 Kings 9:9	And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the sonne of Ahiiah.
2 Kings 9:10	And the dogges shall eate Iezebel in the fielde of Izreel, and there shalbe none to burie her. And he opened the doore, and fled.
2 Kings 9:11	Then Iehu came out to the seruants of his lord. And one sayd vnto him, Is all well? wherefore came this mad fellowe to thee? And hee sayde vnto them, Ye knowe the man, and what his talke was.
2 Kings 9:12	And they sayde, It is false, tell vs it nowe. Then he sayd, Thus and thus spake he to me, saying, Thus saieth the Lord, I haue anointed thee for King ouer Israel.
2 Kings 9:13	Then they made haste, and tooke euerie man his garment, and put it vnder him on the top of the staires, and blewe the trumpet, saying, Iehu is King.
2 Kings 9:14	So Iehu ye sonne of Iehoshaphat the sonne of Nimshi conspired against Ioram: (Now Ioram kept Ramoth Gilead, he and all Israel, because of Hazael King of Aram.
2 Kings 9:15	And King Ioram returned to bee healed in Izreel of the woundes, which the Aramites had giuen him, when hee fought with Hazael King of Aram) and Iehu sayde, If it be your mindes, let no man depart and escape out of the citie, to goe and tell in Izreel.
2 Kings 9:16	So Iehu gate vp into a charet, and went to Izreel: for Ioram lay there, and Ahaziah King of Iudah was come downe to see Ioram.
2 Kings 9:17	And the watchman that stoode in the towre in Izreel spyed the companie of Iehu as hee came, and sayd, I see a companie. And Iehoram said, Take a horseman and send to meete them, that hee may say, Is it peace?
2 Kings 9:18	So there went one on horseback to meete him, and sayde, Thus sayth the King, Is it peace? And Iehu sayd, What hast thou to do with peace? Turne behinde me. And the watchman tolde, saying, The messenger came to them, but he commeth not againe.
2 Kings 9:19	Then hee sent out another on horsebacke, which came to them, and sayde, Thus sayth the King, Is it peace? And Iehu answered, What hast thou to doe with peace? turne behinde me.
2 Kings 9:20	And the watchman tolde, saying, He came to them also, but commeth not againe, and the marching is like the marching of Iehu the sonne of Nimshi: for he marcheth furiously.
2 Kings 9:21	Then Iehoram sayd, Make ready: and his charet was made ready. And Iehoram King of Israel and Ahaziah King of Iudah went out eyther of them in his charet against Iehu, and met him in the fielde of Naboth the Izreelite.
2 Kings 9:22	And when Iehoram sawe Iehu, he sayde, Is it peace, Iehu? And he answered, What peace? whiles the whoredomes of thy mother Iezebel, and her witchcraftes are yet in great nomber?
2 Kings 9:23	Then Iehoram turned his hand, and fled, and said to Ahaziah, O Ahaziah, there is treason.
2 Kings 9:24	But Iehu tooke a bowe in his hande, and smote Iehoram betweene the shoulders, that the arowe went through his heart: and he fell downe in his charet.
2 Kings 9:25	Then said Iehu to Bidkar a captaine, Take, and cast him in some place of the fielde of Naboth the Izreelite: for I remember that when I and thou rode together after Ahab his father, the Lord layed this burden vpon him.
2 Kings 9:26	Surely I haue seene yesterday the blood of Naboth, and the blood of his sonnes, saide the Lord, and I will render it thee in this fielde, saith the Lord: nowe therefore take and cast him in the fielde, according to the word of the Lord.
2 Kings 9:27	But when Ahaziah the King of Iudah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden house: And Iehu pursued after him, and sayd, Smite him also in the charet: and they smote him in the going vp to Gur, which is by Ibleam. And hee fled to Megiddo, and there dyed.
2 Kings 9:28	And his seruants caried him in a charet to Ierusalem, and buried him in his sepulchre with his fathers in the citie of Dauid.
2 Kings 9:29	And in the eleuenth yere of Ioram the sonne of Ahab, began Ahaziah to reigne ouer Iudah.
2 Kings 9:30	And when Iehu was come to Izreel, Iezebel heard of it, and painted her face, and tired her head, and looked out at a windowe.
2 Kings 9:31	And as Iehu entred at the gate, shee sayde, Had Zimri peace, which slewe his master?
2 Kings 9:32	And he lift vp his eyes to the windowe, and sayd, Who is on my side, who? Then two or three of her Eunuches looked vnto him.
2 Kings 9:33	And he sayde, Cast her downe: and they cast her downe, and hee sprinkled of her blood vpon the wall, and vpon the horses, and he trode her vnder foote.
2 Kings 9:34	And when he was come in, he did eate and drinke, and sayde, Visite now yonder cursed woman, and burie her: for she is a Kings daughter.
2 Kings 9:35	And they went to burie her, but they foud no more of her, then the skull and the feete, and the palmes of her handes.
2 Kings 9:36	Wherefore they came agayne and tolde him. And he said, This is the worde of the Lord, which he spake by his seruant Eliiah the Tishbite, saying, In the fielde of Izreel shall ye dogs eate the flesh of Iezebel.
2 Kings 9:37	And the carkeis of Iezebel shalbe as doung vpon the ground in the field of Izreel, so that none shall say, This is Iezebel.
2 Kings 10:1	Ahab had nowe seuentie sonnes in Samaria. And Iehu wrote letters, and sent to Samaria vnto the rulers of Izreel, and to the Elders, and to the bringers vp of Ahabs children, to this effect,
2 Kings 10:2	Nowe when this letter commeth to you, (for ye haue with you your masters sonnes, yee haue with you both charets and horses, and a defenced citie, and armour)
2 Kings 10:3	Consider therefore which of your masters sonnes is best and most meete, and set him on his fathers throne, and fight for your masters house.
2 Kings 10:4	But they were exceedingly afraid, and saide, Behold two Kings coulde not stande before him, how shall we then stand?
2 Kings 10:5	And he that was gouernour of Ahabs house, and he that ruled the citie, and the Elders, and the bringers vp of the children sent to Iehu, saying, We are thy seruants, and will doe all that thou shalt bid vs: we will make no King: do what seemeth good to thee.
2 Kings 10:6	Then he wrote another letter to them, saying, If ye be mine, and wil obey my voyce, take the heads of ye men that are your masters sonnes, and come to me to Izreel by to morowe this time. (Nowe the Kings sonnes, euen seuentie persons were with the great men of the citie, which brought them vp)
2 Kings 10:7	And when the letter came to them, they tooke the Kings sonnes, and slewe the seuentie persons, and layde their heads in baskets, and sent them vnto him to Izreel.
2 Kings 10:8	Then there came a messenger and tolde him, saying, They haue brought the heads of the Kings sonnes. And he sayd, Let them lay them on two heapes at the entring in of the gate vntil the morning.
2 Kings 10:9	And when it was day, he went out, and stood and sayd to all the people, Ye be righteous: behold, I conspired against my master, and slew him: but who slew all these?
2 Kings 10:10	Knowe nowe that there shall fall vnto the earth nothing of the word of the Lord, which the Lord spake concerning the house of Ahab: for the Lord hath brought to passe the things that hee spake by his seruant Eliiah.
2 Kings 10:11	So Iehu slew al that remained of the house of Ahab in Izreel, and all that were great with him, and his familiars and his priestes, so that he let none of his remaine.
2 Kings 10:12	And he arose, and departed and came to Samaria. And as Iehu was in the way by an house where the shepheards did shere,
2 Kings 10:13	He met with the brethre of Ahaziah king of Iudah, and sayd, Who are ye? And they answered, We are the brethren of Ahaziah, and goe downe to salute the children of the King and the children of the Queene.
2 Kings 10:14	And he sayde, Take them aliue. And they tooke them aliue, and slew them at the well beside the house where the sheepe are shorne, euen two and fourtie men, and he left not one of them.
2 Kings 10:15	And when he was departed thence, hee met with Iehonadab the sonne of Rechab comming to meete him, and he blessed him, and sayde to him, Is thine heart vpright, as mine heart is towarde thine? And Iehonadab answered, Yea, doubtlesse. Then giue me thine hande. And when he had giuen him his hande, he tooke him vp to him into the charet.
2 Kings 10:16	And he sayde, Come with me, and see the zeale that I haue for the Lord: so they made him ride in his charet.
2 Kings 10:17	And when he came to Samaria, he slew all that remained vnto Ahab in Samaria, till he had destroyed him, according to the worde of the Lord, which he spake to Eliiah.
2 Kings 10:18	Then Iehu assembled all the people, and sayd vnto them, Ahab serued Baal a litle, but Iehu shall serue him much more.
2 Kings 10:19	Now therefore call vnto me all ye prophets of Baal, all his seruants, and all his priests, and let not a man be lacking: for I haue a great sacrifice for Baal: whosoeuer is lacking, he shall not liue. But Iehu did it by a subtiltie to destroy ye seruats of Baal.
2 Kings 10:20	And Iehu sayd, Proclaime a solemne assemblie for Baal. And they proclaimed it.
2 Kings 10:21	So Iehu sent vnto all Israel, and all the seruants of Baal came, and there was not a man left that came not. And they came into the house of Baal, and the house of Baal was full from ende to ende.
2 Kings 10:22	Then he said vnto him that had the charge of the vestrie, Bring forth vestments for al the seruants of Baal. And he brought the out vestments.
2 Kings 10:23	And when Iehu went, and Iehonadab the sonne of Rechab into the house of Baal, he sayde vnto the seruants of Baal, Searche diligently, and looke, lest there be here with you any of the seruants of the Lord, but the seruants of Baal only.
2 Kings 10:24	And when they went in to make sacrifice and burnt offering, Iehu appoynted foure score men without, and sayd, If any of the men whome I haue brought into your hands, escape, his soule shalbe for his soule.
2 Kings 10:25	And when hee had made an ende of the burnt offring, Iehu sayde to the garde, and to the captaines, Goe in, slay them, let not a man come out. And they smote them with the edge of the sworde. And the garde, and the captaines cast them out, and went vnto the citie, where was the temple of Baal.
2 Kings 10:26	And they brought out the images of the temple of Baal, and burnt them.
2 Kings 10:27	And they destroyed the image of Baal, and threwe downe the house of Baal, and made a iakes of it vnto this day.
2 Kings 10:28	So Iehu destroyed Baal out of Israel.
2 Kings 10:29	But from the sinnes of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat which made Israel to sinne, Iehu departed not from them, neither from the golden calues that were in Beth-el and that were in Dan.
2 Kings 10:30	And the Lord sayde vnto Iehu, Because thou hast diligently executed that which was right in mine eyes, and hast done vnto the house of Ahab according to all things that were in mine heart, therefore shall thy sonnes vnto the fourth generation sit on the throne of Israel.
2 Kings 10:31	But Iehu regarded not to walke in the law of the Lord God of Israel with all his heart: for hee departed not from the sinnes of Ieroboam, which made Israel to sinne.
2 Kings 10:32	In those dayes the Lord began to lothe Israel, and Hazael smote them in all the coastes of Israel,
2 Kings 10:33	From Iorden Eastward, euen all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and them that were of Manasseh, from Aroer (which is by the riuer Arnon) and Gilead and Bashan.
2 Kings 10:34	Concerning the rest of the actes of Iehu, and all that he did, and all his valiant deedes, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 10:35	And Iehu slept with his fathers, and they buryed him in Samaria, and Iehoahaz his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Kings 10:36	And the time that Iehu reigned ouer Israel in Samaria is eight and twentie yeeres.
2 Kings 11:1	Then Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah when she saw that her sonne was dead, she arose, and destroyed all the Kings seede.
2 Kings 11:2	But Iehosheba the daughter of King Ioram, and sister to Ahaziah tooke Ioash the sonne of Ahaziah, and stale him from among the Kings sonnes that shoulde be slaine, both him and his nource, keeping them in the bed chaber, and they hid him from Athaliah, so that he was not slaine.
2 Kings 11:3	And he was with her hid in the house of the Lord sixe yeere: and Athaliah did reigne ouer the land.
2 Kings 11:4	And the seuenth yeere Iehoiada sent and tooke the captaines ouer hundreths, with other captaines and them of the garde, and caused them to come vnto him into the house of the Lord, and made a couenant with them, and tooke an othe of them in the house of the Lord, and shewed them the Kings sonne.
2 Kings 11:5	And he commanded them, saying, This is it that ye must doe, The third part of you, that commeth on the Sabbath, shall warde towarde the Kings house:
2 Kings 11:6	And another third part in the gate of Sur: and another thirde part in the gate behinde them of the garde: and ye shall keepe watche in the house of Massah.
2 Kings 11:7	And two parts of you, that is, all that goe out on the Sabbath day, shall keepe the watch of the house of the Lord about the King.
2 Kings 11:8	And ye shall compasse the King rounde about, euery man with his weapon in his hande, and whosoeuer commeth within the ranges, let him be slayne: be you with the King, as he goeth out and in.
2 Kings 11:9	And the captaines of the hundreths did according to all that Iehoiada the Priest commaded, and they tooke euery man his men that entred in to their charge on the Sabbath with them that went out of it on the Sabbath, and came to Iehoiada the Priest.
2 Kings 11:10	And the Priest gaue to the captaines of hundreths the speares and the shieldes that were King Dauids, and were in the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 11:11	And the garde stoode, euery man with his weapon in his hande, from the right side of the house to the left side, about the altar and about the house, round about the King.
2 Kings 11:12	Then he brought out the Kings sonne, and put the crowne vpon him and gaue him the Testimonie, and they made him King: also they anoynted him, and clapt their handes, and sayde, God saue the King.
2 Kings 11:13	And when Athaliah heard the noyse of the running of the people, shee came in to the people in the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 11:14	And when shee looked, beholde, the King stoode by a pillar, as the maner was, and the princes and the trumpetters by the King, and al the people of the land reioyced, and blew with trumpets. Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and cryed, Treason, treason.
2 Kings 11:15	But Iehoiada the Priest commanded the captaines of the hundreths that had the rule of the hoste, and sayde vnto them, Haue her forth of the ranges, and he that followeth her, let him die by the sworde: for the Priest had sayd, Let her not be slaine in the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 11:16	Then they laid hands on her, and she went by the way, by the which the horses goe to the house of the King, and there was she slaine.
2 Kings 11:17	And Iehoiada made a couenant betweene the Lord, and the King and the people, that they should be the Lordes people: likewise betweene the King and the people.
2 Kings 11:18	Then all the people of the lande went into the house of Baal, and destroyed it with his altars, and his images brake they downe courageously, and slewe Mattan the Priest of Baal before the altars: and the Priest set a garde ouer the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 11:19	Then he tooke the captaines of hudreths, and the other captaines, and the garde, and all the people of the lande: and they brought the King from the house of the Lord, and came by the way of the gate of the garde to the Kings house: and he sate him downe on the throne of the Kings.
2 Kings 11:20	And all the people of the land reioyced, and the citie was in quiet: for they had slaine Athaliah with the sworde beside the Kings house.
2 Kings 11:21	Seuen yeere olde was Iehoash when he began to reigne.
2 Kings 12:1	In the seuenth yere of Iehu Iehoash began to reigne, and reigned fourty yeres in Ierusalem, and his mothers name was Zibiah of Beer-sheba.
2 Kings 12:2	And Iehoash did that which was good in the sight of the Lord all his time that Iehoiada the Priest taught him.
2 Kings 12:3	But the hie places were not taken away: for the people offred yet and burnt incense in the hie places.
2 Kings 12:4	And Iehoash sayde to the Priestes, All the siluer of dedicate things that bee brought to the house of the Lord, that is, the money of them that are vnder the count, the money that euery man is set at, and all the money that one offereth willingly, and bringeth into the house of the Lord,
2 Kings 12:5	Let the Priestes take it to them, euery man of his acquaintance: and they shall repaire the broken places of the house, wheresoeuer any decay is founde.
2 Kings 12:6	Yet in the three and twentieth yeere of King Iehoash the Priestes had not mended that which was decayed in the Temple.
2 Kings 12:7	Then King Iehoash called for Iehoiada the Priest, and the other Priestes, and sayd vnto them, Why repaire yee not the ruines of the Temple? nowe therefore receiue no more money of your acquaintance, except yee deliuer it to repaire the ruines of the Temple.
2 Kings 12:8	So the Priestes consented to receiue no more money of the people, neither to repaire the decayed places of the Temple.
2 Kings 12:9	Then Iehoiada the Priest tooke a chest and bored an hole in the lid of it, and set it beside the altar, on the right side, as euery man commeth into the Temple of the Lord. And the Priestes that kept the doore, put therein all the money that was brought into the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 12:10	And when they sawe there was much money in the chest, the Kinges Secretarie came vp and the hie Priest, and put it vp after that they had tolde the money that was found in the house of the Lord,
2 Kings 12:11	And they gaue the money made readie into the handes of them, that vndertooke the worke, and that had the ouersight of the house of the Lord; and they payed it out to the carpenters and builders that wrought vpon the house of the Lord,
2 Kings 12:12	And to the masons and hewers of stone, and to bye timber and hewed stone, to repayre that was decayed in the house of the Lord, and for all that which was layed out for the reparation of the Temple.
2 Kings 12:13	Howbeit there was not made for the house of the Lord bowles of siluer, instruments of musicke, basons, trumpets, nor any vessels of golde, or vessels of siluer of the money that was brought into the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 12:14	But they gaue it to the workemen, which repayred therewith the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 12:15	Moreouer, they reckoned not with the men, into whose handes they deliuered that money to be bestowed on workemen: for they dealt faithfully.
2 Kings 12:16	The money of the trespasse offring and the money of ye sinne offrings was not brought into the house of the Lord: for it was the Priests.
2 Kings 12:17	Then came vp Hazael King of Aram, and fought against Gath and tooke it, and Hazael set his face to goe vp to Ierusalem.
2 Kings 12:18	And Iehoash King of Iudah tooke all the halowed thinges that Iehoshaphat, and Iehoram, and Ahaziah his fathers Kings of Iudah had dedicated, and that he himselfe had dedicated, and all the golde that was found in the treasures of the house of the Lord and in the Kings house, and sent it to Hazael King of Aram, and he departed from Ierusalem.
2 Kings 12:19	Concerning the rest of the acts of Ioash and all that he did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
2 Kings 12:20	And his seruants arose and wrought treason, and slewe Ioash in the house of Millo, when he came downe to Silla:
2 Kings 12:21	Euen Iozachar the sonne of Shimeath, and Iehozabad the sonne of Shomer his seruants smote him, and he dyed: and they buried him with his fathers in the citie of Dauid. And Amaziah his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Kings 13:1	In the three and twentieth yeere of Ioash the sonne of Ahaziah King of Iudah, Iehoahaz the sonne of Iehu began to reigne ouer Israel in Samaria, and he reigned seuenteene yeere.
2 Kings 13:2	And he did euil in the sight of the Lord, and followed the sinnes of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, which made Israel to sinne, and departed not therefrom.
2 Kings 13:3	And the Lord was angry with Israel, and deliuered them into the hand of Hazael King of Aram, and into the hand of Ben-hadad the sonne of Hazael, all his dayes.
2 Kings 13:4	And Iehoahaz besought the Lord, and the Lord heard him: for he saw the trouble of Israel, wherewith the King of Aram troubled them.
2 Kings 13:5	(And the Lord gaue Israel a deliuerer, so that they came out from vnder the subiection of the Aramites. And the children of Israel dwelt in their tents as before time.
2 Kings 13:6	Neuerthelesse they departed not from the sinnes of the house of Ieroboam which made Israel sinne, but walked in them. euen the groue also remayned still in Samaria)
2 Kings 13:7	For he had left of the people to Iehoahaz but fiftie horsemen, and tenne charets, and tenne thousand footemen, because the King of Aram had destroyed them, and made them like dust beaten to pouder.
2 Kings 13:8	Concerning the rest of the actes of Iehoahaz and all that he did, and his valiant deedes, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 13:9	And Iehoahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria, and Ioash his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Kings 13:10	In the seuen and thirtieth yere of Ioash King of Iudah began Iehoash the sonne of Iehoahaz to reigne ouer Israel in Samaria, and reigned sixteene yeere,
2 Kings 13:11	And did euil in the sight of the Lord: for he departed not from all the sinnes of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat that made Israel to sinne, but he walked therein.
2 Kings 13:12	Concerning the rest of the actes of Ioash and all that he did, and his valiant deedes, and how he fought against Amaziah King of Iudah, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 13:13	And Ioash slept with his fathers, and Ieroboam sate vpon his seate: and Ioash was buryed in Samaria among the Kings of Israel.
2 Kings 13:14	When Elisha fell sicke of his sickenesse whereof he dyed, Ioash the King of Israel came downe vnto him, and wept vpon his face, and sayd, O my father, my father, the charet of Israel, and the horsemen of the same.
2 Kings 13:15	Then Elisha sayde vnto him, Take a bowe and arrowes. And he tooke vnto him bowe and arrowes.
2 Kings 13:16	And he sayde to the King of Israel, Put thine hand vpon the bowe. And he put his hand vpon it. And Elisha put his hands vpon the Kings hands,
2 Kings 13:17	And saide, Open the windowe Eastward. And when he had opened it, Elisha said, Shoote. And he shot. And he sayd, Beholde the arrowe of the Lordes deliuerance and the arrowe of deliuerance against Aram: for thou shalt smite the Aramites in Aphek, till thou hast consumed them.
2 Kings 13:18	Againe he said, Take the arrowes. And he tooke them. And he sayde vnto the King of Israel, Smite the ground. And he smote thrise, and ceased.
2 Kings 13:19	Then the man of God was angry with him, and sayde, Thou shouldest haue smitten fiue or sixe times, so thou shouldest haue smitten Aram, till thou haddest consumed it, where nowe thou shalt smite Aram but thrise.
2 Kings 13:20	So Elisha dyed, and they buryed him. And certaine bandes of the Moabites came into the land that yeere.
2 Kings 13:21	And as they were burying a man, behold, they saw the souldiers: therfore they cast the man into the sepulchre of Elisha. And when the man was downe, and touched the bones of Elisha, he reuiued and stoode vpon his feete.
2 Kings 13:22	But Hazael King of Aram vexed Israel all the dayes of Iehoahaz.
2 Kings 13:23	Therefore the Lord had mercy on them and pitied them, and had respect vnto them because of his couenant with Abraham, Izhak, and Iaakob, and would not destroy them, neither cast he them from him as yet.
2 Kings 13:24	So Hazael the King of Aram dyed: and Ben-hadad his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Kings 13:25	Therefore Iehoash the sonne of Iehoahaz returned, and tooke out of the hand of Ben-hadad the sonne of Hazael the cities which he had taken away by warre out of the hand of Iehoahaz his father: for three times did Ioash beate him, and restored the cities vnto Israel.
2 Kings 14:1	The second yeere of Ioash sonne of Iehoahaz King of Israel reigned Amaziah the sonne of Ioash King of Iudah.
2 Kings 14:2	He was fiue and twentie yeere olde when he began to reigne, and reigned nine and twentie yeere in Ierusalem, and his mothers name was Iehoadan of Ierusalem.
2 Kings 14:3	And he did vprightly in the sight of the Lord, yet not like Dauid his father, but did according to all that Ioash his father had done.
2 Kings 14:4	Notwithstanding the hie places were not taken away: for as yet the people did sacrifice and burnt incense in the hie places.
2 Kings 14:5	And when the kingdome was confirmed in his hand, he slewe his seruants which had killed the King his father.
2 Kings 14:6	But the children of those that did slay him, he slewe not, according vnto that that is written in the booke of the Lawe of Moses, wherein the Lord commanded, saying, The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children put to death for the fathers: but euery man shall be put to death for his owne sinne.
2 Kings 14:7	He slew also of Edom in the valley of salt ten thousand, and tooke the citie of Sela by warre, and called the name thereof Ioktheel vnto this day.
2 Kings 14:8	Then Amaziah sent messengers to Iehoash the sonne of Iehoahaz, sonne of Iehu King of Israel, saying, Come, let vs see one another in the face.
2 Kings 14:9	Then Iehoash the King of Israel sent to Amaziah King of Iudah, saying, The thistle that is in Lebanon, sent to the cedar that is in Lebanon, saying, Giue thy daughter to my sonne to wife: and the wilde beast that was in Lebanon, went and trode downe the thistle.
2 Kings 14:10	Because thou hast smitten Edom, thine heart hath made thee proud: bragge of glory, and tary at home. why doest thou prouoke to thine hurt, that thou shouldest fall, and Iudah with thee?
2 Kings 14:11	But Amaziah would not heare: therefore Iehoash King of Israel went vp: and he and Amaziah King of Iudah sawe one another in the face at Beth-shemesh which is in Iudah.
2 Kings 14:12	And Iudah was put to the worse before Israel, and they fledde euery man to their tents.
2 Kings 14:13	But Iehoash King of Israel tooke Amaziah King of Iudah, the sonne of Iehoash the sonne of Ahaziah, at Beth-shemesh, and came to Ierusalem, and brake downe the wall of Ierusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate, foure hundreth cubites.
2 Kings 14:14	And he tooke all the gold and siluer, and all the vessels that were found in the house of the Lord, and in the treasures of the Kings house, and the children that were in hostage, and returned to Samaria.
2 Kings 14:15	Concerning the rest of the acts of Iehoash which he did and his valiant deedes, and how he fought with Amaziah King of Iudah, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 14:16	And Iehoash slept with his fathers, and was buried at Samaria among the Kings of Israel: and Ieroboam his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Kings 14:17	And Amaziah the sonne of Ioash King of Iudah, liued after the death of Iehoash sonne of Iehoahaz King of Israel fifteene yeere.
2 Kings 14:18	Concerning the rest of the actes of Amaziah, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
2 Kings 14:19	But they wrought treason against him in Ierusalem, and he fled to Lachish, but they sent after him to Lachish, and slewe him there.
2 Kings 14:20	And they brought him on horses, and he was buried at Ierusalem with his fathers in the citie of Dauid.
2 Kings 14:21	Then all the people of Iudah tooke Azariah which was sixteene yeere olde, and made him King for his father Amaziah.
2 Kings 14:22	He built Elath, and restored it to Iudah, after that the King slept with his fathers.
2 Kings 14:23	In the fifteenth yeere of Amaziah the sonne of Ioash King of Iudah, was Ieroboam the sonne of Ioash made King ouer Israel in Samaria, and reigned one and fourtie yeere.
2 Kings 14:24	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord: for he departed not from all the sinnes of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, which made Israel to sinne.
2 Kings 14:25	He restored the coast of Israel, from the entring of Hamath, vnto the Sea of the wildernesse, according to the worde of the Lord God of Israel, which he spake by his seruant Ionah the sonne of Amittai the Prophet, which was of Gath Hepher.
2 Kings 14:26	For the Lord saw the exceeding bitter affliction of Israel, so that there was none shutte vp, nor any left, neyther yet any that could helpe Israel.
2 Kings 14:27	Yet the Lord had not decreed to put out the name of Israel from vnder the heauen: therefore he preserued them by the hand of Ieroboam the sonne of Ioash.
2 Kings 14:28	Concerning the rest of the actes of Ieroboam, and all that he did, and his valiant deedes, and how he fought, and how he restored Damascus, and Hamath to Iudah in Israel, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 14:29	So Ieroboam slept with his fathers, euen with the Kings of Israel, and Zachariah his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Kings 15:1	In the seuen and twentieth yeere of Ieroboam King of Israel, began Azariah, sonne of Amaziah King of Iudah to reigne.
2 Kings 15:2	Sixteene yeere olde was he, when he was made King, and he reigned two and fiftie yeere in Ierusalem: and his mothers name was Iecholiah of Ierusalem.
2 Kings 15:3	And he did vprightly in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father Amaziah did.
2 Kings 15:4	But the hie places were not put away: for the people yet offered, and burned incense in the hie places.
2 Kings 15:5	And the Lord smote the King: and he was a leper vnto the day of his death, and dwelt in an house apart, and Iotham the kings sonne gouerned the house, and iudged the people of the land.
2 Kings 15:6	Concerning the rest of the actes of Azariah, and all that he did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
2 Kings 15:7	So Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buryed him with his fathers in the citie of Dauid, and Iotham his sonne reigned in his stead.
2 Kings 15:8	In the eyght and thirtieth yeere of Azariah King of Iudah did Zachariah the sonne of Ieroboam reigne ouer Israel in Samaria sixe moneths,
2 Kings 15:9	And did euill in the sight of the Lord, as did his fathers: for he departed not from the sinnes of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, which made Israel to sinne.
2 Kings 15:10	And Shallum the sonne of Iabesh cospired against him, and smote him in the sight of the people, and killed him, and reigned in his stead.
2 Kings 15:11	Concerning the rest of the actes of Zachariah, behold, they are written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
2 Kings 15:12	This was the word of the Lord, which he spake vnto Iehu, saying, Thy sonnes shall sit on the throne of Israel vnto the fourth generation after thee. And it came so to passe.
2 Kings 15:13	Shallum the sonne of Iabesh began to reigne in the nine and thirtieth yeere of Vzziah King of Iudah: and he reigned the space of a moneth in Samaria.
2 Kings 15:14	For Menahem the sonne of Gadi went vp from Tirzah, and came to Samaria, and smote Shallum the sonne of Iabesh in Samaria, and slew him, and reigned in his stead.
2 Kings 15:15	Cocerning the rest of the acts of Shallum, and the treason which he wrought, beholde, they are written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
2 Kings 15:16	Then Menahem destroyed Tiphsah, and all that were therein, and the coastes thereof from Tirzah, because they opened not to him, and he smote it, and ript vp all their women with childe.
2 Kings 15:17	The nine and thirtieth yeere of Azariah King of Iudah, beganne Menahem the sonne of Gadi to reigne ouer Israel, and reigned ten yeeres in Samaria.
2 Kings 15:18	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord, and departed not all his dayes from the sinne of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, which made Israel to sinne.
2 Kings 15:19	Then Pul the king of Asshur came against the land: and Menahem gaue Pul a thousand talents of siluer, that his hande might bee with him, and establish the kingdome in his hand.
2 Kings 15:20	And Menahem exacted the money in Israel, that all men of substance shoulde giue the King of Asshur fiftie shekels of siluer a piece: so the king of Asshur returned and taried not there in the land.
2 Kings 15:21	Concerning the rest of the actes of Menahem, and all that he did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel?
2 Kings 15:22	And Menahem slept with his fathers, and Pekahiah his sonne did reigne in his steade.
2 Kings 15:23	In ye fiftieth yere of Azariah king of Iudah, began Pekahiah the sonne of Menahem to reigne ouer Israel in Samaria, and reigned two yere.
2 Kings 15:24	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord: for he departed not from the sinnes of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, which made Israel to sinne.
2 Kings 15:25	And Pekah the sonne of Remaliah, his captaine conspired against him, and smote him in Samaria in the place of the Kings palace with Argob and Arieh, and with him fiftie men of the Gileadites: so he killed him, and reigned in his steade.
2 Kings 15:26	Concerning the rest of the actes of Pekahiah, and all that he did, behold, they are written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
2 Kings 15:27	In the two and fiftieth yere of Azariah King of Iudah began Pekah the sonne of Remaliah to reigne ouer Israel in Samaria, and reigned twentie yeere.
2 Kings 15:28	And he did euil in the sight of the Lord: for he departed not from the sinnes of Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, that made Israel to sinne.
2 Kings 15:29	In the dayes of Pekah king of Israel came Tiglath Pileser king of Asshur, and tooke Iion, and Abel, Beth-maachah, and Ianoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilah, and all the land of Naphtali, and caryed them away to Asshur.
2 Kings 15:30	And Hoshea the sonne of Elah wrought treason against Pekah the sonne of Remaliah, and smote him, and slewe him, and reigned in his stead in the twentieth yeere of Iotham the sonne of Vzziah.
2 Kings 15:31	Concerning the rest of the actes of Pekah, and all that he did, behold, they are written in the booke of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel.
2 Kings 15:32	In the second yere of Pekah the sonne of Remaliah King of Israel, began Iotham sonne of Vzziah King of Iudah to reigne.
2 Kings 15:33	Fiue and twentie yeere olde was he, when he began to reigne, and he reigned sixteene yeere in Ierusalem: and his mothers name was Ierusha the daughter of Zadok.
2 Kings 15:34	And hee did vprightly in the sight of the Lord: he did according to all that his father Vzziah had done.
2 Kings 15:35	But the hie places were not put away: for the people yet offered and burnt incense in the hie places: he buylt the hyest gate of the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 15:36	Concerning the rest of the acts of Iotham, and all that hee did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the kings of Iudah?
2 Kings 15:37	In those dayes the Lord began to send against Iudah Rezin the king of Aram, and Pekah the sonne of Remaliah.
2 Kings 15:38	And Iotham slept with his fathers, and was buryed with his fathers in the citie of Dauid his father, and Ahaz his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Kings 16:1	The seuenteenth yeere of Pekah the sonne of Remaliah, Ahaz the sonne of Iotham King of Iudah began to reigne.
2 Kings 16:2	Twentie yeere olde was Ahaz, when hee began to reigne, and he reigned sixteene yeere in Ierusalem, and did not vprightly in the sight of the Lord his God, like Dauid his father:
2 Kings 16:3	But walked in the way of ye kings of Israel, yea, and made his sonne to go through the fire, after the abominations of the heathen, whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel.
2 Kings 16:4	Also he offred and burnt incense in the hie places and on the hilles, and vnder euery greene tree.
2 Kings 16:5	Then Rezin king of Aram and Pekah sonne of Remaliah King of Israel came vp to Ierusalem to fight: and they besieged Ahaz, but could not ouercome him.
2 Kings 16:6	At the same time Rezin king of Aram restored Elath to Aram, and droue the Iewes from Elath: so the Aramites came to Elath, and dwelt there vnto this day.
2 Kings 16:7	Then Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglath Pileser king of Asshur, saying, I am thy seruant and thy sonne: come vp, and deliuer me out of the hand of the king of Aram, and out of the hand of the King of Israel which rise vp against me.
2 Kings 16:8	And Ahaz tooke the siluer and the golde that was found in the house of the Lord, and in the treasures of the Kings house, and sent a present vnto the King of Asshur.
2 Kings 16:9	And the King of Asshur consented vnto him: and the King of Asshur went vp against Damascus. and when he had taken it, he caryed the people away to Kir, and slew Rezin.
2 Kings 16:10	And King Ahaz went vnto Damascus to meete Tiglath Pileser King of Asshur: and when King Ahaz sawe the altar that was at Damascus, he sent to Vriiah the Priest the paterne of the altar, and the facion of it, and all the workemanship thereof.
2 Kings 16:11	And Vriiah the Priest made an altar in al poyntes like to that which King Ahaz had sent from Damascus, so did Vriiah the Priest against King Ahaz came from Damascus.
2 Kings 16:12	So when the King was come from Damascus, the King sawe the altar: and the King drewe neere to the altar and offered thereon.
2 Kings 16:13	And hee burnt his burnt offering, and his meate offring, and powred his drinke offring, and sprinkled the blood of his peace offrings besides the altar,
2 Kings 16:14	And set it by the brasen altar which was before the Lord, and brought it in farther before the house betweene the altar and the house of the Lord, and set it on the North side of the altar.
2 Kings 16:15	And King Ahaz commanded Vriiah the Priest, and sayde, Vpon the great altar set on fire in the morning the burnt offring, and in the euen the meate offring, and the Kings burnt offring and his meate offering, with the burnt offring of all the people of the lande, and their meate offring, and their drinke offrings: and powre thereby all the blood of the burnt offring, and all the blood of the sacrifice, and the brasen altar shalbe for me to inquire of God.
2 Kings 16:16	And Vriiah the Priest did according to all that King Ahaz had commanded.
2 Kings 16:17	And King Ahaz brake the borders of the bases, and tooke the caldrons from off them, and tooke downe the sea from the brasen oxen that were vnder it, and put it vpon a pauement of stones.
2 Kings 16:18	And the vaile for the Sabbath (that they had made in the house) and the Kings entrie without turned he to the house of the Lord, because of the King of Asshur.
2 Kings 16:19	Concerning the rest of the actes of Ahaz, which he did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
2 Kings 16:20	And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and was buryed with his fathers in the citie of Dauid, and Hezekiah his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Kings 17:1	In the twelft yeere of Ahaz King of Iudah began Hoshea the sonne of Elah to reigne in Samaria ouer Israel, and reigned nine yeeres.
2 Kings 17:2	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord, but not as the Kinges of Israel, that were before him.
2 Kings 17:3	And Shalmaneser king of Asshur came vp against him, and Hoshea became his seruant, and gaue him presents.
2 Kings 17:4	And the King of Asshur founde treason in Hoshea: for he had sent messengers to So King of Egypt, and brought no present vnto the King of Asshur, as he had done yeerely: therfore the king of Asshur shut him vp, and put him in prison.
2 Kings 17:5	Then the king of Asshur came vp throughout all the lande, and went against Samaria, and besieged it three yeere.
2 Kings 17:6	In the ninth yeere of Hoshea, the King of Asshur tooke Samaria, and caryed Israel away vnto Asshur, and put them in Halah, and in Habor by the riuer of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.
2 Kings 17:7	For when the children of Israel sinned against the Lord their God, which had brought them out of the land of Egypt, from vnder ye hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and feared other gods,
2 Kings 17:8	And walked according to the facions of the Heathen, whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel, and after the maners of the Kings of Israel, which they vsed,
2 Kings 17:9	And the children of Israel had done secretly things that were not vpright before the Lord their God, and throughout all their cities had built hie places, both from the tower of the watch, to the defensed citie,
2 Kings 17:10	And had made them images and groues vpon euery hie hill, and vnder euery greene tree,
2 Kings 17:11	And there burnt incense in all the hie places, as did the heathen, whom the Lord had taken away before them, and wrought wicked things to anger the Lord,
2 Kings 17:12	And serued idoles: whereof the Lord had sayd vnto them, Ye shall do no such thing,
2 Kings 17:13	Notwithstanding the Lord testified to Israel, and to Iudah by all the Prophets, and by all the Seers, saying, Turne from your euill wayes, and keepe my commandements and my statutes, according to all the Lawe, which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by my seruants the Prophets.
2 Kings 17:14	Neuerthelesse they would not obey, but hardened their neckes, like to the neckes of their fathers, that did not beleeue in the Lord their God.
2 Kings 17:15	And they refused his statutes and his couenant, that he made with their fathers, and his testimonies (wherewith he witnessed vnto them) and they followed vanitie, and became vaine, and followed the heathen that were round about them: concerning whome the Lord had charged them, that they should not do like them.
2 Kings 17:16	Finally they left all the commandements of the Lord their God, and made them molten images, euen two calues, and made a groue, and worshipped all the hoste of heauen, and serued Baal.
2 Kings 17:17	And they made their sonnes and their daughters passe thorowe the fire, and vsed witchcraft and inchantments, yea, solde them selues to doe euill in the sight of the Lord, to anger him.
2 Kings 17:18	Therefore the Lord was exceeding wroth with Israel, and put them out of his sight, and none was left but the tribe of Iudah onely.
2 Kings 17:19	Yet Iudah kept not the commandements of the Lord their God, but walked according to the facion of Israel, which they vsed.
2 Kings 17:20	Therefore the Lord cast off all the seede of Israel, and afflicted them, and deliuered them into the handes of spoylers, vntill he had cast them out of his sight.
2 Kings 17:21	For he cut off Israel from the house of Dauid, and they made Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat King: and Ieroboam drewe Israel away from following the Lord, and made them sinne a great sinne.
2 Kings 17:22	For the children of Israel walked in all the sinnes of Ieroboam, which he did, and departed not therefrom,
2 Kings 17:23	Vntill the Lord put Israel away out of his sight, as he had said by all his seruants the Prophets, and caryed Israel away out of their land to Asshur vnto this day.
2 Kings 17:24	And the King of Asshur brought folke from Babel, and from Cuthah, and from Aua, and from Hamath, and from Sepharuaim, and placed them in the cities of Samaria in steade of the children of Israel: so they possessed Samaria, and dwelt in the cities thereof.
2 Kings 17:25	And at the beginning of their dwelling there, they feared not the Lord: therefore the Lord sent lions among them, which slewe them.
2 Kings 17:26	Wherefore they spake to the King of Asshur, saying, The nations which thou hast remoued, and placed in the cities of Samaria, knowe not the maner of the God of the land: therefore he hath sent lions among them, and behold, they slay them, because they knowe not the maner of the God of the land.
2 Kings 17:27	Then the King of Asshur commanded, saying, Carie thither one of the Priestes whome ye brought thence, and let him goe and dwell there, and teache them the maner of the God of the countrey.
2 Kings 17:28	So one of the Priestes, which they had caryed from Samaria, came and dwelt in Beth-el, and taught them how they shoulde feare the Lord.
2 Kings 17:29	Howbeit euery nation made their gods, and put them in the houses of the hie places, which the Samaritanes had made, euery nation in their cities, wherein they dwelt.
2 Kings 17:30	For the men of Babel made Succoth-Benoth: and the men of Cuth made Nergal, and the men of Hamath made Ashima,
2 Kings 17:31	And the Auims made Nibhaz, and Tartak: and the Sepharuims burnt their children in the fire to Adrammelech, and Anammelech the gods of Sepharuaim.
2 Kings 17:32	Thus they feared the Lord, and appoynted out Priestes out of them selues for the hie places, who prepared for them sacrifices in the houses of the hie places.
2 Kings 17:33	They feared the Lord, but serued their gods after the maner of the nations whome they caryed thence.
2 Kings 17:34	Vnto this day they doe after the olde maner: they neyther feare God, neyther doe after their ordinances, nor after their customes, nor after the Lawe, nor after the commandement, which the Lord commanded the children of Iaakob, whom he named Israel,
2 Kings 17:35	And with whom the Lord had made a couenant, and charged them, saying, Feare none other gods, nor bowe your selues to them, nor serue them, nor sacrifice to them:
2 Kings 17:36	But feare the Lord which brought you out of the land of Egypt with great power, and a stretched out arme: him feare ye, and worshippe him, and sacrifice to him.
2 Kings 17:37	Also keepe ye diligently the statutes and the ordinances, and the Lawe, and the commandement, which he wrote for you, that ye do them continually, and feare not other gods.
2 Kings 17:38	And forget not the couenant that I haue made with you, neither feare ye other gods,
2 Kings 17:39	But feare the Lord your God, and he will deliuer you out of the handes of all your enemies.
2 Kings 17:40	Howbeit they obeyed not, but did after their olde custome.
2 Kings 17:41	So these nations feared the Lord, and serued their images also: so did their children, and their childrens children: as did their fathers, so do they vnto this day.
2 Kings 18:1	Now in the third yeere of Hoshea, sonne of Elah King of Israel, Hezekiah the sonne of Ahaz king of Iudah began to reigne.
2 Kings 18:2	He was fiue and twentie yeere olde when he began to reigne, and reigned nine and twenty yeere in Ierusalem. His mothers name also was Abi the daughter of Zachariah,
2 Kings 18:3	And he did vprightly in the sight of the Lord, according to all that Dauid his father had done.
2 Kings 18:4	He tooke away the hie places, and brake the images, and cut downe the groues, and brake in pieces the brasen serpent that Moses had made: for vnto those dayes the children of Israel did burne incense to it, and hee called it Nehushtan.
2 Kings 18:5	He trusted in the Lord God of Israel: so that after him was none like him among all the Kings of Iudah, neither were there any such before him.
2 Kings 18:6	For he claue to the Lord, and departed not from him, but kept his commandements, which the Lord had commanded Moses.
2 Kings 18:7	So the Lord was with him, and he prospered in all thinges, which he tooke in hande: also he rebelled against the King of Asshur, and serued him not.
2 Kings 18:8	He smote the Philistims vnto Azzah, and the coastes thereof, from the watch towre vnto the defensed citie.
2 Kings 18:9	And in the fourth yere of King Hezekiah, (which was the seuenth yeere of Hoshea sonne of Elah King of Israel) Shalmaneser King of Asshur came vp against Samaria, and besieged it.
2 Kings 18:10	And after three yeeres they tooke it, euen in the sixt yeere of Hezekiah: that is, the ninth yeere of Hoshea King of Israel was Samaria taken.
2 Kings 18:11	Then the King of Asshur did carry away Israel vnto Asshur, and put them in Halah and in Habor, by the riuer of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes,
2 Kings 18:12	Because they woulde not obey the voyce of the Lord their God, but transgressed his couenant: that is, all that Moses the seruant of the Lord had commanded, and would neyther obey nor doe them.
2 Kings 18:13	Moreouer, in the fourteenth yeere of King Hezekiah, Saneherib King of Asshur came vp against all the strong cities of Iudah, and tooke them.
2 Kings 18:14	Then Hezekiah King of Iudah sent vnto the King of Asshur to Lachish, saying, I haue offended: depart from me, and what thou layest vpon me, I wil beare it. And the King of Asshur appoynted vnto Hezekiah King of Iudah three hudreth talents of siluer, and thirty talets of golde.
2 Kings 18:15	Therefore Hezekiah gaue all the siluer that was found in the house of the Lord, and in the treasures of the Kings house.
2 Kings 18:16	At the same season did Hezekiah pul off the plates of the doores of the Temple of the Lord, and the pillars (which the sayd Hezekiah King of Iudah had couered ouer) and gaue them to the King of Asshur.
2 Kings 18:17	And the King of Asshur sent Tartan, and Rab-saris, and Rabshakeh from Lachish to King Hezekiah with a great hoste against Ierusalem. And they went vp, and came to Ierusalem, and when they were come vp, they stood by the conduite of the vpper poole, which is by the path of the fullers fielde,
2 Kings 18:18	And called to the King. Then came out to them Eliakim the sonne of Hilkiah, which was steward of the house, and Shebnah the chanceller, and Ioah the sonne of Asaph the recorder.
2 Kings 18:19	And Rabshakeh sayde vnto them, Tell ye Hezekiah, I pray you, Thus saith the great King, euen the great King of Asshur, What confidence is this wherein thou trustest?
2 Kings 18:20	Thou thinkest, Surely I haue eloquence, but counsell and strength are for the warre. On whom then doest thou trust, that thou rebellest against me?
2 Kings 18:21	Lo, thou trustest now in this broken staffe of reede, to wit, on Egypt, on which if a man leane, it will goe into his hand, and pearce it: so is Pharaoh king of Egypt vnto all that trust on him.
2 Kings 18:22	But if ye say vnto me, We trust in the Lord our God, is not that he whose hie places, and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, and hath sayd to Iudah and Ierusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar in Ierusalem?
2 Kings 18:23	Now therefore giue hostages to my lord the King of Asshur, and I will giue thee two thousand horses, if thou be able to set riders vpon them.
2 Kings 18:24	For how canst thou despise any captaine of the least of my masters seruants, and put thy trust on Egypt for charets and horsemen?
2 Kings 18:25	Am I now come vp without the Lord to this place, to destroy it? the Lord sayd to me, Goe vp against this land, and destroy it.
2 Kings 18:26	Then Eliakim the sonne of Hilkiah, and Shebnah, and Ioah said vnto Rabshakeh, Speake I pray thee, to thy seruants in the Aramites language, for we vnderstand it, and talke not with vs in the Iewes tongue, in the audience of the people that are on the wall.
2 Kings 18:27	But Rabshakeh saide vnto them, Hath my master sent me to thy master and to thee to speake these words, and not to the men which sit on the wall, that they may eate their owne doung, and drinke their owne pisse with you?
2 Kings 18:28	So Rabshakeh stoode and cryed with a loude voyce in the Iewes language, and spake, saying, Heare the wordes of the great King, of the king of Asshur.
2 Kings 18:29	Thus sayth the King, Let not Hezekiah deceiue you: for he shall not be able to deliuer you out of mine hand.
2 Kings 18:30	Neither let Hezekiah make you to trust in the Lord, saying, The Lord will surely deliuer vs, and this citie shall not be giuen ouer into the hand of the king of Asshur.
2 Kings 18:31	Hearken not vnto Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Asshur, Make appointment with me, and come out to me, that euery man may eate of his owne vine, and euery man of his owne figge tree, and drinke euery man of the water of his owne well,
2 Kings 18:32	Till I come, and bring you to a land like your owne land, euen a land of wheate and wine, a land of bread and vineyardes, a lande of oliues oyle, and hony, that ye may liue and not die: and obey not Hezekiah, for he deceiueth you, saying, The Lord will deliuer vs.
2 Kings 18:33	Hath any of the gods of the nations deliuered his lande out of the hand of the King of Asshur?
2 Kings 18:34	Where is the god of Hamah, and of Arpad? where is the god of Sepharuaim, Hena and Iuah? how haue they deliuered Samaria out of mine hand?
2 Kings 18:35	Who are they among all the gods of the nations, that haue deliuered their lande out of mine hand, that the Lord should deliuer Ierusalem out of mine hand?
2 Kings 18:36	But the people helde their peace, and answered not him a worde: for the Kings commandement was, saying, Answere ye him not.
2 Kings 18:37	Then Eliakim, the sonne of Hilkiah which was steward of the house, and Shebnah the chanceller, and Ioah the sonne of Asaph the recorder came to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and tolde him the wordes of Rabshakeh.
2 Kings 19:1	And when King Hezekiah heard it, he rent his clothes and put on sackecloth, and came into the house of the Lord,
2 Kings 19:2	And sent Eliakim which was the stewarde of the house, and Shebnah the chanceller, and the Elders of the Priestes clothed in sackecloth to Isaiah the Prophet the sonne of Amoz.
2 Kings 19:3	And they said vnto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This day is a day of tribulation and of rebuke, and blasphemie: for the childre are come to the birth, and there is no strength to bring foorth.
2 Kings 19:4	If so be the Lord thy God hath heard all the wordes of Rabshakeh, whome the King of Asshur his master hath sent to raile on the liuing God, and to reproch him with wordes which the Lord thy God hath heard, then lift thou vp thy prayer for the remnant that are left.
2 Kings 19:5	So the seruants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah.
2 Kings 19:6	And Isaiah said vnto them, So shall ye say to your master, Thus sayeth the Lord, Be not afraide of the words which thou hast heard, wherewith the seruants of the king of Asshur haue blasphemed me.
2 Kings 19:7	Beholde, I will sende a blast vpon him, and he shall heare a noyse, and returne to his owne lande: and I will cause him to fall by the sworde in his owne lande.
2 Kings 19:8	So Rabshakeh returned, and founde the King of Asshur fighting against Libnah: for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.
2 Kings 19:9	He heard also men say of Tirhakah King of Ethiopia, Beholde, he is come out to fight against thee: he therefore departed and sent other messengers vnto Hezekiah, saying,
2 Kings 19:10	Thus shall ye speake to Hezekiah King of Iudah, and say, Let not thy God deceiue thee in whome thou trustest, saying, Ierusalem shall not be deliuered into the hande of the King of Asshur.
2 Kings 19:11	Beholde, thou hast heard what the Kings of Asshur haue done to all landes, how they haue destroyed them: and shalt thou be deliuered?
2 Kings 19:12	Haue the gods of the heathen deliuered them which my fathers haue destroyed? as Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of Eden, which were in Thelasar?
2 Kings 19:13	Where is the King of Hamath, and the King of Arpad, and the King of the citie of Shepharuaim, Hena and Iuah?
2 Kings 19:14	So Hezekiah receiued the letter of the hande of the messengers, and read it: and Hezekiah went vp into the house of the Lord, and Hezekiah spread it before the Lord.
2 Kings 19:15	And Hezekiah prayed before the Lord, and saide, O Lord God of Israel, which dwellest betweene the Cherubims, thou art very God alone ouer all the kingdomes of the earth: thou hast made the heauen and the earth.
2 Kings 19:16	Lord, bow downe thine eare, and heare: Lord open thine eyes and behold, and heare the wordes of Saneherib, who hath sent to blaspheme the liuing God.
2 Kings 19:17	Trueth it is, Lord, that the Kings of Asshur haue destroyed the nations and their landes,
2 Kings 19:18	And haue set fire on their gods: for they were no gods, but the worke of mans hands, euen wood and stone: therefore they destroyed them.
2 Kings 19:19	Nowe therefore, O Lord our God, I beseech thee, saue thou vs out of his hande, that all the kingdomes of the earth may knowe, that thou, O Lord, art onely God.
2 Kings 19:20	Then Isaiah the sonne of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I haue heard that which thou hast prayed me, concerning Saneherib King of Asshur.
2 Kings 19:21	This is the worde that the Lord hath spoken against him, O Virgine, daughter of Zion, he hath despised thee, and laughed thee to scorne: O daughter of Ierusalem, he hath shaken his head at thee.
2 Kings 19:22	Whome hast thou railed on? and whome hast thou blasphemed? and against whome hast thou exalted thy voyce, and lifted vp thine eyes on hie? euen against the Holie one of Israel.
2 Kings 19:23	By thy messengers thou hast rayled on the Lord, and said, By the multitude of my charets I am come vp to the toppe of the mountaines, by the sides of Lebanon, and will cut downe the hie cedars thereof, and the faire firre trees thereof, and I will goe into the lodging of his borders, and into the forest of his Carmel.
2 Kings 19:24	I haue digged, and drunke the waters of others, and with the plant of my feete haue I dried all the floods closed in.
2 Kings 19:25	Hast thou not heard, howe I haue of olde time made it, and haue formed it long ago? and should I nowe bring it, that it should be destroyed, and laid on ruinous heapes, as cities defensed?
2 Kings 19:26	Whose inhabitants haue small power, and are afraid, and confounded: they are like the grasse of the field, and greene herbe, or grasse on ye house toppes, or as corne blasted before it be growen.
2 Kings 19:27	I knowe thy dwelling, yea, thy going out, and thy comming in, and thy furie against me.
2 Kings 19:28	And because thou ragest against me, and thy tumult is come vp to mine eares, I will put mine hooke in thy nostrels, and my bridle in thy lippes, and will bring thee backe againe the same way thou camest.
2 Kings 19:29	And this shalbe a signe vnto thee, O Hezekiah, Thou shalt eate this yeere such things as growe of them selues, and the next yeere such as growe without sowing, and the third yeere sowe ye and reape, and plant vineyardes, and eate the fruites thereof.
2 Kings 19:30	And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Iudah, shall againe take roote downewarde, and beare fruite vpwarde.
2 Kings 19:31	For out of Ierusalem shall goe a remnant, and some that shall escape out of mount Zion: the zeale of the Lord of hostes shall doe this.
2 Kings 19:32	Wherefore thus saith the Lord, concerning the King of Asshur, He shall not enter into this citie, nor shoote an arrowe there, nor come before it with shield, nor cast a mount against it:
2 Kings 19:33	But he shall returne the way he came, and shall not come into this citie, saith the Lord.
2 Kings 19:34	For I will defende this citie to saue it for mine owne sake, and for Dauid my seruants sake.
2 Kings 19:35	And the same night the Angell of the Lord went out and smote in the campe of Asshur an hundreth foure score and fiue thousande: so when they rose earely in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses.
2 Kings 19:36	So Saneherib King of Asshur departed, and went his way, and returned, and dwelt in Nineueh.
2 Kings 19:37	And as he was in the Temple worshipping Nisroch his god, Adramelech and Sharezer his sonnes slewe him with the sworde: and they escaped into the land of Ararat, and Esarhaddon his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Kings 20:1	About that time was Hezekiah sicke vnto death: and the Prophet Isaiah the sonne of Amoz came to him, and said vnto him, Thus saith the Lord, Put thine house in an order: for thou shalt die, and not liue.
2 Kings 20:2	Then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed to the Lord, saying,
2 Kings 20:3	I beseech thee, O Lord, remember nowe, howe I haue walked before thee in trueth and with a perfite heart, and haue done that which is good in thy sight: and Hezekiah wept sore.
2 Kings 20:4	And afore Isaiah was gone out into the middle of the court, the worde of the Lord came to him, saying,
2 Kings 20:5	Turne againe, and tell Hezekiah the captaine of my people, Thus saith the Lord God of Dauid thy father, I haue heard thy prayer, and seene thy teares: behold, I haue healed thee, and ye third day thou shalt go vp to ye house of ye Lord,
2 Kings 20:6	And I wil adde vnto thy dayes fiftene yere, and wil deliuer thee and this citie out of the hand of the King of Asshur, and will defende this citie for mine owne sake, and for Dauid my seruats sake.
2 Kings 20:7	Then Isaiah sayde, Take a lumpe of dry figges. And they tooke it, and layed it on the boyle, and he recouered.
2 Kings 20:8	For Hezekiah had saide vnto Isaiah, What shalbe the signe that the Lord will heale me, and that I shall goe vp into the house of the Lord the thirde day?
2 Kings 20:9	And Isaiah answered, This signe shalt thou haue of the Lord, that the Lord will doe that he hath spoken, Wilt thou that the shadowe goe forwarde ten degrees, or go backe ten degrees?
2 Kings 20:10	And Hezekiah answered, It is a light thing for the shadowe to passe forward ten degrees: not so then, but let ye shadow go backe ten degrees.
2 Kings 20:11	And Isaiah the Prophet called vnto the Lord, and he brought againe the shadowe ten degrees backe by the degrees whereby it had gone downe in the diall of Ahaz.
2 Kings 20:12	The same season Berodach Baladan the sonne of Baladan King of Babel, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah: for he had heard howe that Hezekiah was sicke.
2 Kings 20:13	And Hezekiah heard them, and shewed them all his treasure house, to wit, the siluer, and the golde, and the spices, and the precious oyntment, and all the house of his armour, and al that was founde in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, and in all his realme, that Hezekiah shewed them not.
2 Kings 20:14	Then Isaiah the Prophet came vnto King Hezekiah, and saide vnto him, What saide these men? and from whence came they to thee? And Hezekiah said, They be come from a farre countrey, euen from Babel.
2 Kings 20:15	Then saide he, What haue they seene in thine house? And Hezekiah answered, All that is in mine house haue they seene: there is nothing among my treasures, that I haue not shewed the.
2 Kings 20:16	And Isaiah said vnto Hezekiah, Heare the worde of the Lord.
2 Kings 20:17	Beholde, the dayes come, that all that is in thine house, and what so euer thy fathers haue layed vp in store vnto this day, shall be caryed into Babel: Nothing shall be left, saith the Lord.
2 Kings 20:18	And of thy sonnes, that shall proceede out of thee, and which thou shalt beget, shall they take away, and they shalbe eunuches in the palace of the King of Babel.
2 Kings 20:19	Then Hezekiah said vnto Isaiah, The word of the Lord which thou hast spoken, is good: for saide he, Shall it not be good, if peace and trueth be in my dayes?
2 Kings 20:20	Concerning the rest of the actes of Hezekiah, and all his valiant deedes, and howe he made a poole and a cundite, and brought water into the citie, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
2 Kings 20:21	And Hezekiah slept with his fathers: and Manasseh his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Kings 21:1	Manasseh was twelue yeere olde when he began to reigne, and reigned fiftie and fiue yeere in Ierusalem: his mothers name also was Hephzi-bah.
2 Kings 21:2	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord after the abomination of the heathen, whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel.
2 Kings 21:3	For he went backe and built the hie places, which Hezekiah his father had destroyed: and he erected vp altars for Baal, and made a groue, as did Ahab King of Israel, and worshipped all the hoste of heauen and serued them.
2 Kings 21:4	Also he built altars in the house of the Lord, of the which the Lord saide, In Ierusalem will I put my Name.
2 Kings 21:5	And he built altars for al the hoste of ye heauen in the two courtes of the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 21:6	And he caused his sonnes to passe through the fire, and gaue him selfe to witchcraft and sorcerie, and he vsed them that had familiar spirits and were soothsayers, and did much euill in the sight of the Lord to anger him.
2 Kings 21:7	And he set the image of the groue, that he had made, in the house, whereof ye Lord had saide to Dauid and to Salomon his sonne, In this house and in Ierusalem, which I haue chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, will I put my Name for euer.
2 Kings 21:8	Neither will I make the feete of Israel, mooue any more out of the lande, which I gaue their fathers: so that they will obserue and doe all that I haue commanded them, and according to all the Lawe that my seruant Moses commanded them.
2 Kings 21:9	Yet they obeyed not, but Manasseh ledde them out of the way, to doe more wickedly then did the heathen people, whom the Lord destroyed before the children of Israel.
2 Kings 21:10	Therefore the Lord spake by his seruants the Prophets, saying,
2 Kings 21:11	Because that Manasseh King of Iudah hath done such abominations, and hath wrought more wickedly then al that the Amorites (which were before him) did, and hath made Iudah sinne also with his idoles,
2 Kings 21:12	Therefore thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Beholde, I will bring an euill vpon Ierusalem and Iudah, that who so heareth of it, both his eares shall tingle.
2 Kings 21:13	And I will stretch ouer Ierusalem the line of Samaria, and the plommet of the house of Ahab: and I will wipe Ierusalem, as a man wipeth a dish, which he wipeth, and turneth it vpside downe.
2 Kings 21:14	And I will forsake the remnant of mine inheritance, and deliuer them into the hande of their enemies, and they shalbe robbed and spoyled of all their aduersaries,
2 Kings 21:15	Because they haue done euil in my sight, and haue prouoked mee to anger, since the time their fathers came out of Egypt vntill this day.
2 Kings 21:16	Moreouer Manasseh shed innocent blood exceeding much, till hee replenished Ierusalem from corner to corner, beside his sinne wherwith he made Iudah to sinne, and to doe euill in the sight of the Lord.
2 Kings 21:17	Concerning the rest of the actes of Manasseh, and all that hee did, and his sinne that he sinned, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
2 Kings 21:18	And Manasseh slept with his fathers, and was buried in the garden of his own house, euen in the garden of Vzza: and Amon his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Kings 21:19	Amon was two and twentie yere olde, when he began to reigne, and hee reygned two yeere in Ierusalem: his mothers name also was Meshullemeth the daughter of Haruz of Iotbah.
2 Kings 21:20	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord, as his father Manasseh did.
2 Kings 21:21	For hee walked in all the way that his father walked in, and serued the idoles that his father serued, and worshipped them.
2 Kings 21:22	And he forsooke the Lord God of his fathers, and walked not in the way of the Lord.
2 Kings 21:23	And the seruantes of Amon conspired against him, and slewe the King in his owne house.
2 Kings 21:24	And the people of the land slewe all them that had conspired against King Amon, and the people made Iosiah his sonne King in his steade.
2 Kings 21:25	Concerning the rest of the actes of Amon, which he did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
2 Kings 21:26	And they buried him in his sepulchre in the garden of Vzza: and Iosiah his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Kings 22:1	Iosiah was eight yeere olde when he beganne to reigne, and hee reigned one and thirtie yeere in Ierusalem. His mothers name also was Iedidah the daughter of Adaiah of Bozcath.
2 Kings 22:2	And hee did vprightly in the sight of the Lord, and walked in all the wayes of Dauid his father, and bowed neither to the right hand, nor to the left.
2 Kings 22:3	And in the eighteenth yeere of King Iosiah, the King sent Shaphan the sonne of Azaliah the sonne of Meshullam the chanceller to ye house of the Lord, saying,
2 Kings 22:4	Goe vp to Hilkiah the high Priest, that hee may summe the siluer which is brought into the house of the Lord, which the keepers of the doore haue gathered of the people.
2 Kings 22:5	And let them deliuer it into the hande of them that doe the worke, and haue the ouersight of the house of the Lord: let them giue it to them that worke in the house of the Lord, to repaire the decayed places of the house:
2 Kings 22:6	To wit, vnto the artificers and carpenters and masons, and to bye timber, and hewed stone to repaire the house.
2 Kings 22:7	Howebeit, let no rekoning bee made with them of the money, that is deliuered into their hand: for they deale faithfully.
2 Kings 22:8	And Hilkiah the high Priest sayde vnto Shaphan the chanceller, I haue found the booke of the Lawe in the house of the Lord: and Hilkiah gaue the booke to Shaphan, and hee reade it.
2 Kings 22:9	So Shaphan the chanceller came to ye King, and brought him word againe, and saide, Thy seruants haue gathered the money, that was found in the house, and haue deliuered it vnto the hands of them that doe the worke, and haue the ouersight of the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 22:10	Also Shaphan the chanceller shewed the King saying, Hilkiah the Priest hath deliuered me a booke. And Shaphan read it before the King.
2 Kings 22:11	And when the King had heard the wordes of the booke of the Law, he rent his clothes.
2 Kings 22:12	Therefore the King commanded Hilkiah the Priest, and Ahikam the sonne of Shaphan, and Achbor the sonne of Michaiah, and Shaphan the chanceller, and Asahiah the Kings seruant, saying,
2 Kings 22:13	Go ye and inquire of the Lord for me, and for the people, and for all Iudah concerning the wordes of this booke that is founde: for great is the wrath of the Lord that is kindled against vs, because our fathers haue not obeyed the wordes of this booke, to doe according vnto all that which is written therein for vs.
2 Kings 22:14	So Hilkiah the Priest and Ahikam, and Achbor and Shaphan, and Asahiah went vnto Huldah the Prophetesse the wife of Shallum, ye sonne of Tikuah, the sonne of Harhas keeper of the wardrobe: (and she dwelt in Ierusalem in the colledge) and they communed with her.
2 Kings 22:15	And shee answered them, Thus sayth the Lord God of Israel, Tel the man that sent you to mee,
2 Kings 22:16	Thus sayth the Lord, Behold, I wil bring euill vpon this place, and on the inhabitants thereof, euen al the words of the booke which ye King of Iudah hath read,
2 Kings 22:17	Because they haue forsaken mee, and haue burnt incense vnto other gods, to anger me with all ye works of their hands: my wrath also shalbe kindled against this place and shall not be queched:
2 Kings 22:18	But to the King of Iudah, who sent you to inquire of the Lord, so shall ye say vnto him, Thus sayeth the Lord God of Israel, The wordes that thou hast heard, shall come to passe.
2 Kings 22:19	But because thine heart did melt, and thou hast humbled thy selfe before the Lord, when thou heardest what I spake against this place, and against the inhabitants of the same, to wit, that it should be destroyed and accursed, and hast rent thy clothes, and wept before me, I haue also heard it, saith the Lord.
2 Kings 22:20	Beholde therefore, I wil gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shalt be put in thy graue in peace, and thine eyes shall not see all the euil, which I will bring vpon this place. Thus they brought the King worde againe.
2 Kings 23:1	Then the King sent, and there gathered vnto him all the Elders of Iudah and of Ierusalem.
2 Kings 23:2	And the King went vp into the house of the Lord, with all the men of Iudah and all the inhabitants of Ierusalem with him, and the Priests and Prophets, and all the people both small and great: and he reade in their eares all the wordes of the booke of the couenant, which was found in the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 23:3	And the King stood by the pillar, and made a couenant before the Lord, that they shoulde walke after the Lord, and keepe his commandements, and his testimonies, and his statutes with all their heart, and with all their soule, that they might accomplish the wordes of this couenant written in this booke. And all the people stood to the couenant.
2 Kings 23:4	Then the King commanded Hilkiah the hie Priest and the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the doore, to bring out of ye Temple of the Lord all the vessels that were made for Baal, and for the groue, and for all the hoste of heauen, and he burnt them without Ierusalem in the fieldes of Kedron, and caryed the pouder of them into Beth-el.
2 Kings 23:5	And he put downe the Chemarims, whom the Kings of Iudah had founded to burne incense in the hie places, and in the cities of Iudah, and about Ierusalem, and also them that burnt incense vnto Baal, to the sunne and to the moone, and to the planets, and to all the hoste of heauen.
2 Kings 23:6	And he brought out the groue from the Temple of the Lord without Ierusalem vnto the valley of Kedron, and burnt it in the valley Kedron, and stampt it to pouder, and cast the dust thereof vpon the graues of the children of the people.
2 Kings 23:7	And hee brake downe the houses of the Sodomites, that were in the house of the Lord, where the women woue hangings for the groue.
2 Kings 23:8	Also he brought all the priests out of the cities of Iudah, and defiled the hie places where the Priests had burnt incense, euen from Geba to Beer-sheba, and destroyed the hie places of the gates, that were in the entring in of the gate of Ioshua the gouernour of the citie, which was at the left hand of the gate of the citie.
2 Kings 23:9	Neuerthelesse the Priests of the hie places came not vp to the altar of the Lord in Ierusalem, saue onely they did eate of the vnleauened bread among their brethren.
2 Kings 23:10	He defiled also Topheth, which was in the valley of the children of Hinnom, that no man shoulde make his sonne or his daughter passe through the fire to Molech.
2 Kings 23:11	He put downe also the horses that the Kings of Iudah had giuen to the sunne at the entring in of the house of the Lord, by the chamber of Nethan-melech the eunuche, which was ruler of the suburbes, and burnt the charets of the sunne with fire.
2 Kings 23:12	And the altars that were on the top of the chamber of Ahaz, which the Kings of Iudah had made, and the altars which Manasseh had made in the two courts of the house of the Lord did the King breake downe, and hasted thence, and cast the dust of them in the brooke Kedron.
2 Kings 23:13	Moreouer the King defiled the hie places that were before Ierusalem and on the right hand of the mount of corruption (which Salomon the King of Israel had buylt for Ashtoreth the idole of the Zidonians, and for Chemosh the idole of the Moabites, and for Milchom the abomination of the children of Ammon)
2 Kings 23:14	And he brake the images in pieces, and cut downe the groues and filled their places with the bones of men.
2 Kings 23:15	Furthermore the altar that was at Beth-el, and the hie place made by Ieroboam the sonne of Nebat, which made Israel to sinne, both this altar and also the hie place, brake he downe, and burnt the hie place, and stampt it to powder and burnt the groue.
2 Kings 23:16	And as Iosiah turned himselfe, he spied the graues, that were in the mount, and sent and tooke the bones out of the graues, and burnt them vpon the altar and polluted it, according to the word of the Lord, that the man of God proclaimed, which cryed the same wordes.
2 Kings 23:17	Then he sayde, What title is that which I see? And the men of the citie sayd vnto him, It is the sepulchre of the man of God, which came from Iudah, and tolde these things that thou hast done to the altar of Beth-el.
2 Kings 23:18	Then sayde he, Let him alone: let none remooue his bones. So his bones were saued with the bones of the Prophet that came from Samaria.
2 Kings 23:19	Iosiah also tooke away all the houses of the hie places, which were in the cities of Samaria, which the Kings of Israel had made to anger the Lord, and did to them according to all the factes that he had done in Beth-el.
2 Kings 23:20	And he sacrificed all the Priests of the hie places, that were there vpon the altars, and burnt mens bones vpon them, and returned to Ierusalem.
2 Kings 23:21	Then the king commanded all the people, saying, Keepe the passeouer vnto the Lord your God, as it is written in the booke of this couenant.
2 Kings 23:22	And there was no Passeouer holden like that from the dayes of the Iudges that iudged Israel, nor in all the dayes of the Kinges of Israel, and of the Kings of Iudah.
2 Kings 23:23	And in the eightenth yere of King Iosiah was this Passeouer celebrated to the Lord in Ierusalem.
2 Kings 23:24	Iosiah also tooke away them that had familiar spirits, and the soothsayers, and the images, and the idoles, and al the abominations that were espied in the lande of Iudah and in Ierusalem, to performe the wordes of the Lawe, which were written in the booke that Hilkiah the Priest found in the house of the Lord.
2 Kings 23:25	Like vnto him was there no King before him, that turned to the Lord with al his heart, and with all his soule, and with all his might according to all the Lawe of Moses, neither after him arose there anie like him.
2 Kings 23:26	Notwithstanding the Lord turned not from the fiercenesse of his great wrath wherewith he was angrie against Iudah, because of all the prouocatios wherwith Manasseh had prouoked him.
2 Kings 23:27	Therefore the Lord saide, I will put Iudah also out of my sight, as I haue put away Israel, and will cast off this citie Ierusalem, which I haue chosen, and the house whereof I said, My name shalbe there.
2 Kings 23:28	Concerning the rest of the actes of Iosiah, and all that hee did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kings of Iudah?
2 Kings 23:29	In his dayes Pharaoh Nechoh King of Egypt went vp against the King of Asshur to the riuer Perath. And King Iosiah went against him, whome when Pharaoh sawe, he slewe him at Megiddo.
2 Kings 23:30	Then his seruants caryed him dead from Megiddo, and brought him to Ierusalem, and buried him in his owne sepulchre. And the people of the lande tooke Iehoahaz the sonne of Iosiah, and anointed him, and made him King in his fathers steade.
2 Kings 23:31	Iehoahaz was three and twentie yeere olde when he beganne to reigne, and reigned three moneths in Ierusalem. His mothers name also was Hamutal the daughter of Ieremiah of Libnah.
2 Kings 23:32	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his fathers had done.
2 Kings 23:33	And Pharaoh Nechoh put him in bondes at Riblah in the lande of Hamath, while he reigned in Ierusalem, and put the lande to a tribute of an hundreth talents of siluer, and a talent of golde.
2 Kings 23:34	And Pharaoh Nechoh made Eliakim the sonne of Iosiah King in steade of Iosiah his father, and turned his name to Iehoiakim, and tooke Iehoahaz away, which when he came to Egypt, dyed there.
2 Kings 23:35	And Iehoiakim gaue the siluer and the golde to Pharaoh, and taxed the land to giue the money, according to the commadement of Pharaoh: he leuyed of euery man of the people of the lande, according to his value, siluer and golde to giue vnto Pharaoh Nechoh.
2 Kings 23:36	Iehoiakim was fiue and twentie yere olde, when he began to reigne, and he reigned eleuen yeeres in Ierusalem. His mothers name also was Zebudah the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah.
2 Kings 23:37	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his fathers had done.
2 Kings 24:1	In his dayes came Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel vp, and Iehoiakim became his seruant three yeere: afterwarde he turned, and rebelled against him.
2 Kings 24:2	And the Lord sent against him bandes of the Caldees, and bands of the Aramites, and bands of the Moabites, and bandes of the Ammonites, and he sent them against Iudah to destroy it, according to the worde of the Lord, which he spake by his seruants the Prophets.
2 Kings 24:3	Surely by the commandement of the Lord came this vpon Iudah, that he might put them out of his sight for the sinnes of Manasseh, according to all that he did,
2 Kings 24:4	And for the innocent blood that he shed, (for he filled Ierusalem with innocent blood) therefore the Lord would not pardon it.
2 Kings 24:5	Concerning the rest of the actes of Iehoiakim, and all that he did, are they not written in the booke of the Chronicles of the Kinges of Iudah?
2 Kings 24:6	So Iehoiakim slept with his fathers, and Iehoiachin his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Kings 24:7	And the King of Egypt came no more out of his lande: for the King of Babel had taken from the riuer of Egypt, vnto the riuer Perath, all that pertained to the King of Egypt.
2 Kings 24:8	Iehoiachin was eighteene yere old, when he beganne to reigne, and reigned in Ierusalem three moneths. His mothers name also was Nehushta, the daughter of Elnathan of Ierusalem.
2 Kings 24:9	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord, according to all that his father had done.
2 Kings 24:10	In that time came the seruants of Nebuchad-nezzar king of Babel vp against Ierusalem: so the citie was besieged.
2 Kings 24:11	And Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel came against the citie, and his seruants did besiege it.
2 Kings 24:12	Then Iehoiachin the king of Iudah came out against the King of Babel, he, and his mother and his seruants, and his princes, and his eunuches: and the King of Babel tooke him in the eyght yeere of his reigne.
2 Kings 24:13	And he caryed out thence all the treasures of the house of the Lord, and the treasures of the Kings house, and brake all the vessels of gold, which Salomon King of Israel had made in the Temple of the Lord, as the Lord had saide.
2 Kings 24:14	And he caryed away all Ierusalem, and all the princes, and all the strong men of warre, euen ten thousande into captiuitie, and all the workemen, and cunning men: so none remained sauing the poore people of the lande.
2 Kings 24:15	And he caryed away Iehoiachin into Babel, and the Kings mother, and the Kinges wiues, and his eunuches, and the mightie of the lande caryed he away into captiuitie from Ierusalem to Babel,
2 Kings 24:16	And al the men of warre, euen seuen thousand, and carpenters, and lockesmithes a thousande: all that were strong and apt for warre, did the King of Babel bring to Babel captiues.
2 Kings 24:17	And the King of Babel made Mattaniah his vncle King in his steade, and changed his name to Zedekiah.
2 Kings 24:18	Zedekiah was one and twentie yeere olde, when he began to reigne, and he reigned eleuen yeeres in Ierusalem. His mothers name also was Hamutal the daughter of Ieremiah of Libnah.
2 Kings 24:19	And he did euill in the sight of the Lord, according to all that Iehoiakim had done.
2 Kings 24:20	Therefore certainly the wrath of the Lord was against Ierusalem and Iudah vntill he cast them out of his sight. And Zedekiah rebelled against the King of Babel.
2 Kings 25:1	And in the ninth yeere of his reigne, the tenth moneth and tenth day of the moneth Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel came, he, and all his hoste against Ierusalem, and pitched against it, and they built fortes against it round about it.
2 Kings 25:2	So the citie was besieged vnto the eleueth yeere of King Zedekiah.
2 Kings 25:3	And the ninth day of the moneth the famine was sore in the citie, so that there was no bread for the people of the lande.
2 Kings 25:4	Then the citie was broken vp, and all the men of warre fled by night, by the way of the gate, which is betweene two walles that was by the Kings garden: nowe the Caldees were by the citie round about: and the King went by the way of the wildernesse.
2 Kings 25:5	But the armie of the Caldees pursued after the King, and tooke him in the desertes of Iericho, and all his hoste was scattered from him.
2 Kings 25:6	Then they tooke the King, and caried him vp to the King of Babel to Riblah, where they gaue iudgement vpon him.
2 Kings 25:7	And they slew the sonnes of Zedekiah before his eyes, and put out the eyes of Zedekiah, and bounde him in chaines, and caried him to Babel.
2 Kings 25:8	And in the fift moneth, and seuenth day of the moneth, which was the nineteenth yere of King Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel, came Nebuzar-adan chiefe stewarde and seruaunt of the King of Babel, to Ierusalem,
2 Kings 25:9	And burnt the house of the Lord, and the Kings house, and all the houses of Ierusalem, and all the great houses burnt he with fire.
2 Kings 25:10	And all the armie of the Caldees that were with the chiefe stewarde, brake downe the walles of Ierusalem round about.
2 Kings 25:11	And the rest of the people that were left in the citie, and those that were fled and fallen to the King of Babel, with the remnant of the multitude, did Nebuzar-adan chiefe steward carie away captiue.
2 Kings 25:12	But the chiefe steward left of the poore of the land to dresse the vines, and to till the land.
2 Kings 25:13	Also the pillars of brasse that were in the house of the Lord, and the bases, and the brasen Sea that was in the house of the Lord, did the Caldees breake, and caried the brasse of them to Babel.
2 Kings 25:14	The pots also and the besomes, and the instruments of musike, and the incense dishes, and al the vessels of brasse that they ministred in, tooke they away.
2 Kings 25:15	And the asshe pannes, and the basens, and all that was of gold, and that was of siluer, tooke the chiefe steward away,
2 Kings 25:16	With the two pillars, one Sea and the bases, which Salomon had made for the house of the Lord: the brasse of all these vessels was without weight.
2 Kings 25:17	The height of the one pillar was eighteene cubits, and the chapiter thereon was brasse, and the height of the chapiter was with networke three cubites, and pomegranates vpon the chapiter rounde about, all of brasse: and likewise was the second pillar with the networke.
2 Kings 25:18	And the chiefe steward tooke Seraiah the chiefe Priest, and Zephaniah the second Priest, and the three keepers of the doore.
2 Kings 25:19	And out of the citie hee tooke an Eunuch that had the ouersight of the men of warre, and fiue men of them that were in the Kinges presence, which were founde in the citie, and Sopher captaine of the hoste, who mustred the people of the lande, and threescore men of the people of the lande, that were founde in the citie.
2 Kings 25:20	And Nebuzar-adan the chiefe stewarde tooke them, and brought them to the King of Babel to Riblah.
2 Kings 25:21	And the King of Babel smote them, and slew them at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Iudah was caried away captiue out of his owne land.
2 Kings 25:22	Howbeit there remained people in the land of Iudah, whom Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel left, and made Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam the sonne of Shaphan ruler ouer them.
2 Kings 25:23	Then when all the captaines of the host and their men heard, that the king of Babel had made Gedaliah gouernour, they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, to wit, Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah, and Iohanan the sonne of Kareah, and Seraiah the sonne of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Iaazaniah the sonne of Maachathi, they and their men.
2 Kings 25:24	And Gedaliah sware to them, and to their men, and sayd vnto them, Feare not to be the seruants of the Caldees: dwell in the land, and serue the King of Babel, and ye shalbe well.
2 Kings 25:25	But in the seuenth moneth Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah the sonne of Elishama of the Kings seede, came, and ten men with him, and smote Gedaliah, and he died, and so did he the Iewes, and the Caldees that were with him at Mizpah.
2 Kings 25:26	Then all ye people both small and great, and the captaines of the armie arose, and came to Egypt: for they were afraide of the Caldees.
2 Kings 25:27	Notwithstanding in the seuen and thirtieth yeere after Iehoiachin King of Iudah was caried away, in the twelft moneth and the seuen and twentieth day of the moneth, Euil-merodach King of Babel in the yeere that hee began to reigne, did lift vp the head of Iehoiachin King of Iudah out of the prison,
2 Kings 25:28	And spake kindly to him, and set his throne aboue the throne of the Kings that were with him in Babel,
2 Kings 25:29	And changed his prison garments: and he did continually eate bread before him, all the dayes of his life.
2 Kings 25:30	And his portion was a continual portion giuen him by the King, euery day a certaine, all the dayes of his life.

===== BOOK: 2 Peter =====
2 Peter 1:1	Simon Peter a seruant and an Apostle of Iesus Christ, to you which haue obteined like precious faith with vs by the righteousnesse of our God and Sauiour Iesus Christ:
2 Peter 1:2	Grace and peace be multiplied to you, through the acknowledging of God, and of Iesus our Lord,
2 Peter 1:3	According as his diuine power hath giuen vnto vs all things that perteine vnto life and godlinesse, through the acknowledging of him that hath called vs vnto glory and vertue.
2 Peter 1:4	Whereby most great and precious promises are giuen vnto vs, that by them ye should be partakers of the diuine nature, in that ye flee the corruption, which is in the worlde through lust.
2 Peter 1:5	Therefore giue euen all diligence thereunto: ioyne moreouer vertue with your faith: and with vertue, knowledge:
2 Peter 1:6	And with knowledge, temperance: and with temperance, patience: and with patience, godlines:
2 Peter 1:7	And with godlines, brotherly kindnes: and with brotherly kindnes, loue.
2 Peter 1:8	For if these things be among you, and abound, they will make you that ye neither shalbe idle, nor vnfruitfull in the acknowledging of our Lord Iesus Christ:
2 Peter 1:9	For he that hath not these things, is blinde, and can not see farre off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his olde sinnes.
2 Peter 1:10	Wherefore, brethren, giue rather diligence to make your calling and election sure: for if ye doe these things, ye shall neuer fall.
2 Peter 1:11	For by this meanes an entring shalbe ministred vnto you aboundantly into the euerlasting kingdome of our Lord and Sauiour Iesus Christ.
2 Peter 1:12	Wherefore, I will not be negligent to put you alwayes in remembrance of these things, though that ye haue knowledge, and be stablished in the present trueth.
2 Peter 1:13	For I thinke it meete as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stirre you vp by putting you in remembrance,
2 Peter 1:14	Seeing I knowe that the time is at hand that I must lay downe this my tabernacle, euen as our Lord Iesus Christ hath shewed me.
2 Peter 1:15	I will endeuour therefore alwayes, that ye also may be able to haue remembrance of these things after my departing.
2 Peter 1:16	For we followed not deceiuable fables when we opened vnto you the power, and comming of our Lord Iesus Christ, but with our eyes we saw his maiestie:
2 Peter 1:17	For he receiued of God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voyce to him from that excellent glory, This is my beloued Sonne, in whom I am well pleased.
2 Peter 1:18	And this voyce we heard when it came from heauen, being with him in the Holy mount.
2 Peter 1:19	We haue also a most sure worde of the Prophets, to the which ye doe well that yee take heede, as vnto a light that shineth in a darke place, vntill the day dawne, and the day starre arise in your hearts.
2 Peter 1:20	So that yee first knowe this, that no prophecie of the Scripture is of any priuate interpretation.
2 Peter 1:21	For the prophecie came not in olde time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moued by the holy Ghost.
2 Peter 2:1	Bvt there were false prophets also among the people, euen as there shalbe false teachers among you: which priuily shall bring in damnable heresies, euen denying the Lord, that hath bought them, and bring vpon themselues swift damnation.
2 Peter 2:2	And many shall follow their destructions, by whom the way of trueth shalbe euil spoken of,
2 Peter 2:3	And through couetousnes shall they with fained words make marchandise of you, whose condemnation long since resteth not, and their destruction slumbreth not.
2 Peter 2:4	For if God spared not the Angels that had sinned, but cast them downe into hell, and deliuered them into chaines of darkenes, to be kept vnto damnation:
2 Peter 2:5	Neither hath spared the olde worlde, but saued Noe the eight person a preacher of righteousnesse, and brought in the flood vpon the world of the vngodly,
2 Peter 2:6	And turned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrhe into ashes, condemned them and ouerthrewe them, and made them an ensample vnto them that after should liue vngodly,
2 Peter 2:7	And deliuered iust Loth vexed with the vncleanly conuersation of the wicked:
2 Peter 2:8	(For he being righteous, and dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soule from day to day with their vnlawfull deedes.)
2 Peter 2:9	The Lord knoweth to deliuer the godly out of tentation, and to reserue the vniust vnto the day of iudgement vnder punishment.
2 Peter 2:10	And chiefly them that walke after the flesh, in the lust of vncleannesse, and despise gouernement, which are bolde, and stand in their owne conceite, and feare not to speake euill of them that are in dignitie.
2 Peter 2:11	Where as the Angels which are greater both in power and might, giue not railing iudgement against them before the Lord.
2 Peter 2:12	But these, as naturall brute beasts, led with sensualitie and made to be taken, and destroyed, speake euill of those things which they know not, and shall perish through their owne corruption,
2 Peter 2:13	And shall receiue the wages of vnrighteousnes, as they which count it pleasure dayly to liue deliciously. Spottes they are and blottes, deliting them selues in their deceiuings, in feasting with you,
2 Peter 2:14	Hauing eyes full of adulterie, and that can not cease to sinne, beguiling vnstable soules: they haue heartes exercised with couetousnesse, they are the children of curse:
2 Peter 2:15	Which forsaking the right way, haue gone astray, folowing the way of Balaam, the sonne of Bosor, which loued the wages of vnrighteousnes.
2 Peter 2:16	But he was rebuked for his iniquitie: for the dumme beast speaking with mans voyce, forbade the foolishnesse of the Prophet.
2 Peter 2:17	These are welles without water, and cloudes caried about with a tempest, to whome the blacke darkenes is reserued for euer.
2 Peter 2:18	For in speaking swelling wordes of vanitie, they beguile with wantonnesse through the lusts of the flesh them that were cleane escaped from them which are wrapped in errour,
2 Peter 2:19	Promising vnto them libertie, and are themselues the seruants of corruption: for of whomsoeuer a man is ouercome, euen vnto the same is he in bondage.
2 Peter 2:20	For if they, after they haue escaped from the filthinesse of the world, through the acknowledging of the Lord, and of the Sauiour Iesus Christ, are yet tangled againe therein, and ouercome, the latter ende is worse with them then the beginning.
2 Peter 2:21	For it had bene better for them, not to haue acknowledged the way of righteousnes, then after they haue acknowledged it, to turne from the holy commandement giuen vnto them.
2 Peter 2:22	But it is come vnto them, according to the true Prouerbe, The dogge is returned to his owne vomit: and, The sowe that was washed, to the wallowing in the myre.
2 Peter 3:1	This seconde Epistle I nowe write vnto you, beloued, wherewith I stirre vp, and warne your pure mindes,
2 Peter 3:2	To call to remembrance the wordes, which were tolde before of the holy Prophetes, and also the commandement of vs the Apostles of the Lord and Sauiour.
2 Peter 3:3	This first vnderstande, that there shall come in the last dayes, mockers, which wil walke after their lustes,
2 Peter 3:4	And say, Where is the promise of his comming? for since the fathers died, all things continue alike from the beginning of the creation.
2 Peter 3:5	For this they willingly know not, that the heauens were of olde, and the earth that was of the water and by the water, by the word of God.
2 Peter 3:6	Wherefore the worlde that then was, perished, ouerflowed with the water.
2 Peter 3:7	But the heauens and earth, which are nowe, are kept by the same word in store, and reserued vnto fire against the day of condemnation, and of the destruction of vngodly men.
2 Peter 3:8	Dearely beloued, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is with the Lord, as a thousande yeeres, and a thousande yeeres as one day.
2 Peter 3:9	The Lord of that promise is not slacke (as some men count slackenesse) but is pacient toward vs, and would haue no man to perish, but would all men to come to repentance.
2 Peter 3:10	But the day of the Lord will come as a thiefe in the night, in the which the heauens shall passe away with a noyse, and the elements shall melt with heate, and the earth with the workes that are therein, shalbe burnt vp.
2 Peter 3:11	Seeing therefore that all these thinges must be dissolued, what maner persons ought ye to be in holy conuersation and godlinesse,
2 Peter 3:12	Looking for, and hasting vnto the comming of that day of God, by the which the heauens being on fire, shall be dissolued, and the elements shall melt with heate?
2 Peter 3:13	But wee looke for newe heauens, and a newe earth, according to his promise, wherein dwelleth righteousnesse.
2 Peter 3:14	Wherefore, beloued, seeing that yee looke for such thinges, be diligent that ye may be found of him in peace, without spot and blamelesse.
2 Peter 3:15	And suppose that the long suffering of our Lord is saluation, euen as our beloued brother Paul according to the wisedome giuen vnto him wrote to you,
2 Peter 3:16	As one, that in all his Epistles speaketh of these thinges: among the which some thinges are hard to be vnderstand, which they that are vnlearned and vnstable, wrest, as they do also other Scriptures vnto their owne destruction.
2 Peter 3:17	Ye therefore beloued, seeing ye know these thinges before, beware, lest ye be also plucked away with the errour of the wicked, and fall from your owne stedfastnesse.
2 Peter 3:18	But grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Sauiour Iesus Christ: to him be glory both now and for euermore. Amen.

===== BOOK: 2 Samuel =====
2 Samuel 1:1	After the death of Saul, when Dauid was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites and had beene two dayes in Ziklag,
2 Samuel 1:2	Behold, a man came the third day out of the host from Saul with his clothes rent, and earth vpon his head: and when hee came to Dauid, he fell to the earth, and did obeisance.
2 Samuel 1:3	Then Dauid saide vnto him, Whence commest thou? And he said vnto him, Out of the host of Israel I am escaped.
2 Samuel 1:4	And Dauid saide vnto him, What is done? I pray thee, tell me. Then he said, that the people is fled from the battel, and many of the people are ouerthrowen, and dead, and also Saul and Ionathan his sonne are dead.
2 Samuel 1:5	And Dauid saide vnto the yong man that tolde it him, Howe knowest thou that Saul and Ionathan his sonne be dead?
2 Samuel 1:6	Then the yong man that tolde him, answered, As I came to mount Gilboa, behold, Saul leaned vpon his speare, and loe, the charets and horsemen followed hard after him.
2 Samuel 1:7	And when he looked backe, he saw me, and called me. And I answered, Here am I.
2 Samuel 1:8	And he said vnto me, Who art thou? And I answered him, I am an Amalekite.
2 Samuel 1:9	Then saide hee vnto me, I pray thee come vpon mee, and slay me: for anguish is come vpon me, because my life is yet whole in me.
2 Samuel 1:10	So I came vpon him, and slewe him, and because I was sure that hee coulde not liue, after that hee had fallen, I tooke the crowne that was vpon his head, and the bracelet that was on his arme, and brought them hither vnto my lord.
2 Samuel 1:11	Then Dauid tooke hold on his clothes, and rent them, and likewise al the men that were with him.
2 Samuel 1:12	And they mourned and wept, and fasted vntil euen, for Saul and for Ionathan his sonne, and for the people of the Lord, and for the house of Israel, because they were slaine with the sword.
2 Samuel 1:13	Afterward Dauid saide vnto the yong man that tolde it him, Whence art thou? And hee answered, I am the sonne of a stranger an Amalekite.
2 Samuel 1:14	And Dauid said vnto him, How wast thou not afrayd, to put forth thine hand to destroy the Anoynted of the Lord?
2 Samuel 1:15	Then Dauid called one of his yong men, and said, Goe neere, and fall vpon him. And hee smote him that he dyed.
2 Samuel 1:16	Then said Dauid vnto him, Thy blood be vpon thine owne head: for thine owne mouth hath testified against thee, saying, I haue slaine the Lords Anoynted.
2 Samuel 1:17	Then Dauid mourned with this lamentation ouer Saul, and ouer Ionathan his sonne,
2 Samuel 1:18	(Also he bade them teach the children of Iudah to shoote, as it is written in the booke of Iasher)
2 Samuel 1:19	O noble Israel, hee is slane vpon thy hie places: how are the mightie ouerthrowen!
2 Samuel 1:20	Tell it not in Gath, nor publish it in the streetes of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistims reioyce, lest the daughters of the vncircumcised triumph.
2 Samuel 1:21	Ye mountaines of Gilboa, vpon you be neither dewe nor raine, nor be there fieldes of offrings: for there the shielde of the mightie is cast downe, the shielde of Saul, as though he had not bene anointed with oyle.
2 Samuel 1:22	The bow of Ionathan neuer turned backe, neither did the sword of Saul returne emptie from the blood of the slaine, and from the fatte of the mightie.
2 Samuel 1:23	Saul and Ionathan were louely and pleasant in their liues, and in their deaths they were not deuided: they were swifter then eagles, they were stronger then lions.
2 Samuel 1:24	Yee daughters of Israel, weepe for Saul, which clothed you in skarlet, with pleasures, and hanged ornaments of gold vpon your apparel.
2 Samuel 1:25	Howe were the mightie slaine in the mids of the battel! O Ionathan, thou wast slaine in thine hie places.
2 Samuel 1:26	Wo is me for thee, my brother Ionathan: very kinde hast thou bene vnto me: thy loue to me was wonderfull, passing the loue of women: howe are the mightie ouerthrowen, and the weapons of warre destroyed!
2 Samuel 2:1	After this, Dauid asked counsel of the Lord, saying, Shall I go vp into any of the cities of Iudah? And the Lord sayd vnto him, Goe vp. And Dauid sayd Whither shall I goe? Hee then answered, Vnto Hebron.
2 Samuel 2:2	So Dauid went vp thither, and his two wiues also, Ahinoam the Izreelite, and Abigail Nabals wife the Carmelite.
2 Samuel 2:3	And Dauid brought vp the men that were with him, euery man with his houshold, and they dwelt in the cities of Hebron.
2 Samuel 2:4	Then the men of Iudah came, and there they anoynted Dauid King ouer the house of Iudah. And they tolde Dauid, saying, that the men of Iabesh Gilead buried Saul.
2 Samuel 2:5	And Dauid sent messengers vnto the men of Iabesh Gilead, and said vnto them, Blessed are ye of the Lord, that yee haue shewed such kindenes vnto your lord Saul, that you haue buried him.
2 Samuel 2:6	Therefore now the Lord shewe mercie and trueth vnto you: and I will recompence you this benefite, because ye haue done this thing.
2 Samuel 2:7	Therefore nowe let your handes be strong, and be you valiant: albeit your master Saul bee dead, yet neuerthelesse the house of Iudah hath anoynted me King ouer them.
2 Samuel 2:8	But Abner the sonne of Ner that was captaine of Sauls hoste, tooke Ish-bosheth the sonne of Saul, and brought him to Mahanaim,
2 Samuel 2:9	And made him King ouer Gilead, and ouer the Ashurites, and ouer Izreel, and ouer Ephraim, and ouer Beniamin, and ouer al Israel.
2 Samuel 2:10	Ish-bosheth Sauls sonne was fourtie yeere olde when he began to reigne ouer Israel, and reigned two yeere: but the house of Iudah followed Dauid.
2 Samuel 2:11	(And the time which Dauid reigned in Hebron ouer the house of Iudah, was seuen yeere and sixe moneths)
2 Samuel 2:12	And Abner the sonne of Ner, and the seruantes of Ish-bosheth the sonne of Saul went out of Mahanaim to Gibeon.
2 Samuel 2:13	And Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah, and the seruants of Dauid went out and met one another by the poole of Gibeon: and they sate downe, the one on the one side of the poole, and the other on the otherside of the poole.
2 Samuel 2:14	Then Abner saide to Ioab, Let the yong men nowe arise, and play before vs. And Ioab said, Let them arise.
2 Samuel 2:15	Then there arose and went ouer twelue of Beniamin by number, which perteined to Ish-bosheth the sonne of Saul, and twelue of the seruants of Dauid.
2 Samuel 2:16	And euery one caught his fellowe by the head, and thrust his sword in his fellowes side, so they fell downe together: wherefore ye place was called Helkath-hazzurim, which is in Gibeon.
2 Samuel 2:17	And the battel was exceeding sore that same day: for Abner and the men of Israel fell before the seruants of Dauid.
2 Samuel 2:18	And there were three sonnes of Zeruiah there, Ioab, and Abishai, and Asahel. And Asahel was as light on foote as a wilde roe.
2 Samuel 2:19	And Asahel followed after Abner, and in going he turned neither to the right hand nor to the left from Abner.
2 Samuel 2:20	Then Abner looked behind him, and said, Art thou Asahel? And he answered, Yea.
2 Samuel 2:21	Then Abner said, Turne thee either to the right hande, or to the left, and take one of the yong men, and take thee his weapons: and Asahel would not depart from him.
2 Samuel 2:22	And Abner saide to Asahel, Depart from me: wherefore shoulde I smite thee to the grounde? howe then shoulde I be able to holde vp my face to Ioab thy brother?
2 Samuel 2:23	And when he woulde not depart, Abner with the hinder ende of the speare smote him vnder the fift ryb, that the speare came out behind him: and he fell downe there, and dyed in his place. And as many as came to the place where Asahel fell downe and dyed, stoode still.
2 Samuel 2:24	Ioab also and Abishai pursued after Abner: and the sunne went downe, when they were come to the hill Ammah, that lieth before Giah, by the way of the wildernesse of Gibeon.
2 Samuel 2:25	And the children of Beniamin gathered them selues together after Abner, and were on an heape and stoode on the top of an hill.
2 Samuel 2:26	Then Abner called to Ioab, and said, Shall the sworde deuoure for euer? knowest thou not, that it will be bitternesse in the latter ende? howe long then shall it be, or thou bid the people returne from following their brethren?
2 Samuel 2:27	And Ioab sayde, As God liueth, if thou haddest not spoken, surely euen in the morning the people had departed euery one backe from his brother.
2 Samuel 2:28	So Ioab blew a trumpet, and all the people stoode still, and pursued after Israel no more, neither fought they any more.
2 Samuel 2:29	And Abner and his men walked all that night through the plaine, and went ouer Iorden, and past through all Bithron till they came to Mahanaim.
2 Samuel 2:30	Ioab also returned backe from Abner: and when he had gathered all the people together, there lacked of Dauids seruants nineteene men and Asahel.
2 Samuel 2:31	But the seruants of Dauid had smitten of Beniamin, and of Abners men, so that three hundreth and threescore men dyed.
2 Samuel 2:32	And they tooke vp Asahel, and buried him in the sepulchre of his father, which was in Bethlehem: and Ioab and his men went all night, and when they came to Hebron, the day arose.
2 Samuel 3:1	There was then long warre betweene the house of Saul and the house of Dauid: but Dauid waxed stronger, and the house of Saul waxed weaker.
2 Samuel 3:2	And vnto Dauid were children borne in Hebron: and his eldest sonne was Amnon of Ahinoam the Izreelite,
2 Samuel 3:3	And his seconde, was Chileab of Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite: and the third, Absalom the sonne of Maacah the daughter of Talmai the King of Geshur,
2 Samuel 3:4	And the fourth, Adoniiah the sonne of Haggith, and the fifth, Shephatiah the sonne of Abital,
2 Samuel 3:5	And the sixt, Ithream by Eglah Dauids wife: these were borne to Dauid in Hebron.
2 Samuel 3:6	Nowe while there was warre betweene the house of Saul and the house of Dauid, Abner made all his power for the house of Saul.
2 Samuel 3:7	And Saul had a concubine named Rizpah, the daughter of Aiiah. And Ish-bosheth sayde to Abner, Wherefore hast thou gone in to my fathers concubine?
2 Samuel 3:8	Then was Abner very wroth for the words of Ish-bosheth, and said, Am I a dogges head, which against Iudah do shew mercie this day vnto the house of Saul thy father, to his brethren, and to his neighbours, and haue not deliuered thee into the hande of Dauid, that thou chargest me this day with a fault concerning this woman?
2 Samuel 3:9	So doe God to Abner, and more also, except, as the Lord hath sworne to Dauid, euen so I doe to him,
2 Samuel 3:10	To remoue the kingdome from the house of Saul, that the throne of Dauid may be stablished ouer Israel, and ouer Iudah, euen from Dan to Beer-sheba.
2 Samuel 3:11	And he durst no more answere to Abner: for he feared him.
2 Samuel 3:12	Then Abner sent messengers to Dauid on his behalfe, saying, Whose is the lande? who should also say, Make couenant with me, and beholde, mine hande shalbe with thee, to bring all Israel vnto thee.
2 Samuel 3:13	Who saide, Well, I will make a couenant with thee: but one thing I require of thee, that is, that thou see not my face except thou bring Michal Sauls daughter when thou commest to see me.
2 Samuel 3:14	Then Dauid sent messengers to Ish-bosheth Sauls sonne, saying, Deliuer me my wife Michal, which I marryed for an hundreth foreskinnes of the Philistims.
2 Samuel 3:15	And Ish-bosheth sent, and tooke her from her husband Phaltiel the sonne of Laish.
2 Samuel 3:16	And her husband went with her, and came weeping behinde her, vnto Bahurim: then saide Abner vnto him, Go, and returne. So he returned.
2 Samuel 3:17	And Abner had communication with the Elders of Israel, saying, Ye sought for Dauid in times past, that he might be your King.
2 Samuel 3:18	Nowe then doe it: for the Lord hath spoken of Dauid, saying, By the hand of my seruant Dauid I will saue my people Israel out of the handes of the Philistims, and out of the handes of all their enemies.
2 Samuel 3:19	Also Abner spake to Beniamin, and afterward Abner went to speake with Dauid in Hebron, concerning all that Israel was content with, and the whole house of Beniamin.
2 Samuel 3:20	So Abner came to Dauid to Hebron, hauing twentie men with him, and Dauid made a feast vnto Abner, and to the men that were with him.
2 Samuel 3:21	Then Abner sayde vnto Dauid, I will rise vp, and goe gather all Israel vnto my lorde the King, that they may make a couenant with thee, and that thou mayest reigne ouer all that thine heart desireth. Then Dauid let Abner depart, who went in peace.
2 Samuel 3:22	And beholde, the seruants of Dauid and Ioab came from the campe, and brought a great pray with them (but Abner was not with Dauid in Hebron: for he had sent him away, and he departed in peace)
2 Samuel 3:23	When Ioab, and all the hoste that was with him were come, men tolde Ioab, saying, Abner the sonne of Ner came to the King, and he hath sent him away, and he is gone in peace.
2 Samuel 3:24	Then Ioab came to the King, and saide, What hast thou done? beholde, Abner came vnto thee, why hast thou sent him away, and he is departed?
2 Samuel 3:25	Thou knowest Abner the sonne of Ner: for he came to deceiue thee, and to knowe thy outgoing and ingoing, and to knowe all that thou doest.
2 Samuel 3:26	And when Ioab was gone out from Dauid, he sent messengers after Abner, which brought him againe from the well of Siriah vnknowing to Dauid.
2 Samuel 3:27	And when Abner was come againe to Hebron, Ioab tooke him aside in the gate to speake with him peaceably, and smote him vnder the fift ryb, that he dyed, for the blood of Asahel his brother.
2 Samuel 3:28	And when afterwarde it came to Dauids eare, he saide, I and my kingdome are giltlesse before the Lord for euer, concerning the blood of Abner the sonne of Ner.
2 Samuel 3:29	Let the blood fall on the head of Ioab, and on all his fathers house, that the house of Ioab be neuer without some that haue running issues, or leper, or that leaneth on a staffe, or that doeth fall on the sworde, or that lacketh bread.
2 Samuel 3:30	(So Ioab and Abishai his brother slewe Abner, because he had slaine their brother Asahel at Gibeon in battel)
2 Samuel 3:31	And Dauid said to Ioab, and to al the people that were with him, Rent your clothes, and put on sackecloth, and mourne before Abner: and King Dauid him selfe followed the beare.
2 Samuel 3:32	And when they had buryed Abner in Hebron, the King lift vp his voyce, and wept beside the sepulchre of Abner, and all the people wept.
2 Samuel 3:33	And the King lamented ouer Abner, and sayde, Dyed Abner as a foole dyeth?
2 Samuel 3:34	Thine handes were not bounde, nor thy feete tyed in fetters of brasse: but as a man falleth before wicked men, so diddest thou fall. And all the people wept againe for him.
2 Samuel 3:35	Afterwarde all the people came to cause Dauid eate meate while it was yet day, but Dauid sware, saying, So doe God to me and more also, if I taste bread, or ought els till the sunne be downe.
2 Samuel 3:36	And all the people knewe it, and it pleased them: as whatsoeuer the King did, pleased all the people.
2 Samuel 3:37	For all the people and all Israel vnderstoode that day, howe that it was not the Kings deede that Abner the sonne of Ner was slaine.
2 Samuel 3:38	And the King said vnto his seruants, Know ye not, that there is a prince and a great man falle this day in Israel?
2 Samuel 3:39	And I am this day weake and newly anoynted King: and these men the sonnes of Zeruiah be too harde for me: the Lord rewarde the doer of euill according to his wickednesse.
2 Samuel 4:1	And when Sauls sonne heard that Abner was dead in Hebron, then his handes were feeble, and all Israel was afraide,
2 Samuel 4:2	And Sauls sonne had two men that were captaines of bandes: the one called Baanah, and the other called Rechab, the sonnes of Rimmon a Beerothite of the children of Beniamin. (for Beeroth was reckened to Beniamin,
2 Samuel 4:3	Because the Beerothites fled to Gittaim, and soiourned there, vnto this day).
2 Samuel 4:4	And Ionathan Sauls sonne had a sonne that was lame on his feete: he was fiue yere olde when the tydings came of Saul and Ionathan out of Israel: then his nourse tooke him, and fledde away. And as she made haste to flee, the childe fell, and beganne to halte, and his name was Mephibosheth.
2 Samuel 4:5	And the sonnes of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah went and came in the heat of the day to the house of Ish-bosheth (who slept on a bed at noone)
2 Samuel 4:6	And beholde, Rechab and Baanah his brother came into the middes of the house as they would haue wheate, and they smote him vnder the fift ryb, and fled.
2 Samuel 4:7	For when they came into the house, he slept on his bed in his bed chamber, and they smote him, and slewe him, and beheaded him, and tooke his head, and gate them away through the plaine all the night.
2 Samuel 4:8	And they brought the head of Ish-bosheth vnto Dauid to Hebron, and saide to the King, Beholde the head of Ish-bosheth Sauls sonne thine enemie, who sought after thy life: and the Lord hath auenged my lorde the King this day of Saul, and of his seede.
2 Samuel 4:9	Then Dauid answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, the sonnes of Rimmon the Beerothite, and saide vnto them, As the Lord liueth, who hath deliuered my soule out of al aduersity,
2 Samuel 4:10	When one tolde me, and sayde that Saul was dead, (thinking to haue brought good tydings) I tooke him and slewe him in Ziklag, who thought that I woulde haue giuen him a rewarde for his tidings:
2 Samuel 4:11	How much more, when wicked men haue slaine a righteous person in his owne house, and vpon his bed? shall I not now therfore require his blood at your hand, and take you from the earth?
2 Samuel 4:12	Then Dauid commanded his yong men, and they slew them, and cut off their hands and their feete, and hanged them vp ouer the poole in Hebron: but they tooke the head of Ishbosheth, and buried it in the sepulchre of Abner in Hebron.
2 Samuel 5:1	Then came all the tribes of Israel to Dauid vnto Hebron, and said thus, Beholde, we are thy bones and thy flesh.
2 Samuel 5:2	And in time past when Saul was our King, thou leddest Israel in and out: and the Lord hath sayde to thee, Thou shalt feede my people Israel, and thou shalt be a captaine ouer Israel.
2 Samuel 5:3	So all the Elders of Israel came to the King to Hebron: and King Dauid made a couenant with them in Hebron before the Lord: and they anoynted Dauid King ouer Israel.
2 Samuel 5:4	Dauid was thirtie yeere olde when he began to reigne: and hee reigned fortie yeere.
2 Samuel 5:5	In Hebron hee reigned ouer Iudah seuen yeere, and sixe moneths: and in Ierusalem hee reigned thirtie and three yeeres ouer all Israel and Iudah.
2 Samuel 5:6	The King also and his men went to Ierusalem vnto the Iebusites, the inhabitants of the land: who spake vnto Dauid, saying, Except thou take away the blinde and the lame, thou shalt not come in hither: thinking that Dauid coulde not come thither.
2 Samuel 5:7	But Dauid tooke the fort of Zion: this is the citie of Dauid.
2 Samuel 5:8	Nowe Dauid had sayd the same day, Whosoeuer smiteth the Iebusites, and getteth vp to the gutters and smiteth the lame and blinde, which Dauids soule hateth, I will preferre him: therefore they saide, The blinde and the lame shall not come into that house.
2 Samuel 5:9	So Dauid dwelt in that forte, and called it the citie of Dauid, and Dauid built rounde about it, from Millo, and inward.
2 Samuel 5:10	And Dauid prospered and grewe: for the Lord God of hostes was with him.
2 Samuel 5:11	Hiram also king of Tyrus sent messengers to Dauid, and cedar trees, and carpenters, and masons for walles: and they built Dauid an house.
2 Samuel 5:12	Then Dauid knewe that the Lord had stablished him King ouer Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdome for his people Israels sake.
2 Samuel 5:13	And Dauid tooke him more concubines and wiues out of Ierusalem, after hee was come from Hebron, and more sonnes and daughters were borne to Dauid.
2 Samuel 5:14	And these bee the names of the sonnes that were borne vnto him in Ierusale: Shammua, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Salomon,
2 Samuel 5:15	And Ibhar, and Elishua, and Nepheg, and Iaphia,
2 Samuel 5:16	And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphalet.
2 Samuel 5:17	But when the Philistims hearde that they had anoynted Dauid King ouer Israel, all the Philistims came vp to seeke Dauid: and when Dauid heard, he went downe to a fort.
2 Samuel 5:18	But the Philistims came, and spred themselues in the valley of Rephaim.
2 Samuel 5:19	Then Dauid asked counsel of the Lord, saying, Shall I goe vp to the Philistims? wilt thou deliuer them into mine handes? And the Lord answered Dauid, Goe vp: for I will doubtlesse deliuer the Philistims into thine handes.
2 Samuel 5:20	Then Dauid came to Baal-perazim, and smote them there, and sayde, The Lord hath deuided mine enemies asunder before mee, as waters be deuided asunder: therefore he called the name of that place, Baal-perazim.
2 Samuel 5:21	And there they left their images, and Dauid and his men burnt them.
2 Samuel 5:22	Againe the Philistims came vp, and spred themselues in the valley of Rephaim.
2 Samuel 5:23	And when Dauid asked counsell of the Lord, hee answered, Thou shalt not goe vp, but turne about behinde them, and come vpon them ouer against the mulberie trees.
2 Samuel 5:24	And when thou hearest the noyse of one going in the toppes of the mulberie trees, then remoue: for then shall the Lord goe out before thee, to smite the hoste of the Philistims.
2 Samuel 5:25	Then Dauid did so as the Lord had commanded him, and smote the Philistims from Geba, vntil thou come to Gazer.
2 Samuel 6:1	Againe Dauid gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, euen thirtie thousand,
2 Samuel 6:2	And Dauid arose and went with all the people that were with him from Baale of Iudah to bring vp from thence the Arke of God, whose name is called by the Name of the Lord, of hostes, that dwelleth vpon it betweene the Cherubims.
2 Samuel 6:3	And they put the Arke of God vpon a newe cart, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in Gibeah. And Vzzah and Ahio the sonnes of Abinadab did driue the newe carte.
2 Samuel 6:4	And when they brought the Arke of God out of the house of Abinadab, that was at Gibeah, Ahio went before the Arke,
2 Samuel 6:5	And Dauid and al the house of Israel played before the Lord on all instruments made of firre, and on harpes, and on Psalteries, and on timbrels, and on cornets, and on cymbals.
2 Samuel 6:6	And when they came to Nachons threshing floore, Vzzah put his hande to the Arke of God, and helde it: for the oxen did shake it.
2 Samuel 6:7	And the Lord was verie wroth with Vzzah, and God smote him in the same place for his fault, and there he dyed by the Arke of God.
2 Samuel 6:8	And Dauid was displeased, because the Lord had smitten Vzzah: and he called the name of the place Perez Vzzah vntill this day.
2 Samuel 6:9	Therefore Dauid that day feared the Lord, and sayd, How shall the Arke of the Lord come to mee?
2 Samuel 6:10	So Dauid would not bring the Arke of the Lord vnto him into the citie of Dauid, but Dauid caried it into ye house of Obed-edom a Gittite.
2 Samuel 6:11	And the Arke of the Lord continued in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite, three moneths, and the Lord blessed Obed-edom, and all his houshold.
2 Samuel 6:12	And one told King Dauid, saying, The Lord hath blessed the house of Obed-edom, and all that hee hath, because of the Arke of God: therefore Dauid went and brought the Arke of God from the house of Obed-edom, into the citie of Dauid with gladnesse.
2 Samuel 6:13	And when they that bare the Arke of the Lord had gone sixe paces, he offred an oxe, and a fatte beast.
2 Samuel 6:14	And Dauid danced before the Lord with al his might, and was girded with a linnen Ephod.
2 Samuel 6:15	So Dauid and all the house of Israel, brought the Arke of the Lord with shouting, and sound of trumpet.
2 Samuel 6:16	And as the Arke of the Lord came into the citie of Dauid, Michal Sauls daughter looked through a windowe, and sawe King Dauid leape, and dance before the Lord, and shee despised him in her heart.
2 Samuel 6:17	And when they had brought in the Arke of the Lord, they set it in his place, in the mids of the tabernacle that Dauid had pitched for it: then Dauid offred burnt offrings, and peace offrings before the Lord.
2 Samuel 6:18	And assoone as Dauid had made an ende of offring burnt offrings and peace offrings, hee blessed the people in the Name of the Lord of hostes,
2 Samuel 6:19	And gaue among all the people, euen among the whole multitude of Israel, aswel to the women as men, to euerie one a cake of bread, and a piece of flesh, and a bottell of wine: so all the people departed euerie one to his house.
2 Samuel 6:20	The Dauid returned to blesse his house, and Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meete Dauid, and sayde, O howe glorious was the King of Israel this day, which was vncouered to day in the eyes of the maidens of his seruantes, as a foole vncouereth himselfe.
2 Samuel 6:21	Then Dauid sayd vnto Michal, It was before the Lord, which chose me rather then thy father, and all his house, and commanded me to bee ruler ouer the people of the Lord, euen ouer Israel: and therefore will I play before the Lord,
2 Samuel 6:22	And will yet be more vile then thus, and will be low in mine owne sight, and of the verie same maidseruants, which thou hast spoken of, shall I be had in honour.
2 Samuel 6:23	Therfore Michal the daughter of Saul had no childe vnto the day of her death.
2 Samuel 7:1	Afterwarde when the King sate in his house and the Lord had giuen him rest rounde about from all his enemies,
2 Samuel 7:2	The King saide vnto Nathan the Prophet, Beholde, nowe I dwel in an house of cedar trees, and the Arke of God remayneth within the curtaines.
2 Samuel 7:3	Then Nathan sayde vnto the King, Go, and doe all that is in thine heart: for the Lord is with thee.
2 Samuel 7:4	And the same night the worde of the Lord came vnto Nathan, saying,
2 Samuel 7:5	Goe and tell my seruant Dauid, Thus saieth the Lord, Shalt thou buylde me an house for my dwelling?
2 Samuel 7:6	For I haue dwelt in no house since the time that I brought the children of Israel out of Egypt vnto this day, but haue walked in a tent and tabernacle.
2 Samuel 7:7	In al the places wherein I haue walked with all the children of Israel, spake I one worde with any of the tribes of Israel when I commanded the iudges to feede my people Israel? or sayde I, Why build ye not me an house of cedar trees?
2 Samuel 7:8	Nowe therefore so say vnto my seruant Dauid, Thus saieth the Lord of hostes, I tooke thee from the sheepecote following the sheepe, that thou mightest bee ruler ouer my people, ouer Israel.
2 Samuel 7:9	And I was with thee wheresoeuer thou hast walked, and haue destroyed all thine enemies out of thy sight, and haue made thee a great name, like vnto the name of the great men that are in the earth.
2 Samuel 7:10	(Also I will appoynt a place for my people Israel, and will plant it, that they may dwell in a place of their owne, and moue no more, neither shall wicked people trouble them any more as before time,
2 Samuel 7:11	And since the time that I set Iudges ouer my people of Israel) and I will giue thee rest from al thine enemies: also the Lord telleth thee, that he will make thee an house.
2 Samuel 7:12	And when thy daies bee fulfilled, thou shalt sleepe with thy fathers, and I wil set vp thy seede after thee, which shall proceede out of thy body, and will stablish his kingdome.
2 Samuel 7:13	He shall buyld an house for my Name, and I will stablish ye throne of his kingdome for euer.
2 Samuel 7:14	I will be his father, and hee shall bee my sonne: and if he sinne, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the plagues of the children of men.
2 Samuel 7:15	But my mercy shall not depart away from him, as I tooke it from Saul whome I haue put away before thee.
2 Samuel 7:16	And thine house shall be stablished and thy kingdome for euer before thee, euen thy throne shalbe stablished for euer.
2 Samuel 7:17	According to all these wordes, and according to all this vision, Nathan spake thus vnto Dauid.
2 Samuel 7:18	Then King Dauid went in, and sate before the Lord, and sayde, Who am I, O Lord God, and what is mine house, that thou hast brought me hitherto?
2 Samuel 7:19	And this was yet a small thing in thy sight, O Lord God, therefore thou hast spoken also of thy seruants house for a great while: but doth this appertaine to man, O Lord God?
2 Samuel 7:20	And what can Dauid say more vnto thee? for thou, Lord God, knowest thy seruant.
2 Samuel 7:21	For thy words sake, and according to thine owne heart hast thou done all these great things, to make them knowen vnto thy seruant.
2 Samuel 7:22	Wherefore thou art great, O Lord God: for there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that wee haue heard with our eares.
2 Samuel 7:23	And what one people in the earth is like thy people, like Israel? whose God went and redeemed them to himselfe, that they might be his people, and that hee might make him a name, and do for you great things, and terrible for thy land, O Lord, euen for thy people, whome thou redeemedst to thee out of Egypt, from the nations, and their gods?
2 Samuel 7:24	For thou hast ordeyned to thy selfe thy people Israel to be thy people for euer: and thou Lord art become their God.
2 Samuel 7:25	Nowe therefore, O Lord God, confirme for euer the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy seruant and his house, and doe as thou hast sayde.
2 Samuel 7:26	And let thy Name bee magnified for euer by them that shall say, The Lord of hostes is the God ouer Israel: and let the house of thy seruant Dauid be stablished before thee.
2 Samuel 7:27	For thou, O Lord of hostes, God of Israel, hast reueiled vnto thy seruant, saying, I will build thee an house: therefore hath thy seruant bene bold to pray this prayer vnto thee.
2 Samuel 7:28	Therefore now, O Lord God, (for thou art God, and thy words be true, and thou hast tolde this goodnes vnto thy seruant)
2 Samuel 7:29	Therefore nowe let it please thee to blesse the house of thy seruant, that it may continue for euer before thee: for thou, O Lord God, hast spoken it: and let the house of thy seruant be blessed for euer, with thy blessing.
2 Samuel 8:1	After this now, Dauid smote the Philistims, and subdued them, and Dauid tooke the bridle of bondage out of the hand of the Philistims.
2 Samuel 8:2	And hee smote Moab, and measured them with a corde, and cast them downe to the ground: he measured them with two cordes to put them to death, and with one full corde to keepe them aliue: so became the Moabites Dauids seruants, and brought giftes.
2 Samuel 8:3	Dauid smote also Hadadezer the sonne of Rehob King of Zobah, as he went to recouer his border at the riuer Euphrates.
2 Samuel 8:4	And Dauid tooke of them a thousand and seuen hundreth horsemen, and twenty thousande footemen, and Dauid destroyed all the charets, but he reserued an hundreth charets of them.
2 Samuel 8:5	Then came the Aramites of Dammesek to succour Hadadezer king of Zobah, but Dauid slewe of the Aramites two and twenty thousande men.
2 Samuel 8:6	And Dauid put a garison in Aram of Damesek: and the Aramites became seruants to Dauid, and brought gifts. And the Lord saued Dauid wheresoeuer he went.
2 Samuel 8:7	And Dauid tooke the shieldes of gold that beloged to the seruants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Ierusalem.
2 Samuel 8:8	And out of Betah, and Berothai (cities of Hadadezer) king Dauid brought exceeding much brasse.
2 Samuel 8:9	Then Toi king of Hamath heard howe Dauid had smitten all the hoste of Hadadezer,
2 Samuel 8:10	Therefore Toi sent Ioram his sonne vnto King Dauid, to salute him, and to reioyce with him because he had fought against Hadadezer, and beaten him (for Hadadezer had warre with Toi) who brought with him vessels of siluer, and vessels of golde, and vessels of brasse.
2 Samuel 8:11	And King Dauid did dedicate them vnto the Lord with the siluer and golde that he had dedicate of all the nations, which he had subdued:
2 Samuel 8:12	Of Aram, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistims, and of Amalek, and of the spoyle of Hadadezer ye sonne of Rehob King of Zobah.
2 Samuel 8:13	So Dauid gate a name after that hee returned, and had slayne of the Aramites in the valley of salt eighteene thousand men.
2 Samuel 8:14	And he put a garison in Edom: throughout all Edom put he souldiers, and all they of Edom became Dauids seruants: and the Lord kept Dauid whithersoeuer he went.
2 Samuel 8:15	Thus Dauid reigned ouer all Israel, and executed iudgement and iustice vnto all his people.
2 Samuel 8:16	And Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah was ouer the hoste, and Ioshaphat the sonne of Ahilud was recorder.
2 Samuel 8:17	And Zadok the sonne of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the sonne of Abiathar were the Priestes, and Seraiah the Scribe.
2 Samuel 8:18	And Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and Dauids sonnes were chiefe rulers.
2 Samuel 9:1	And Dauid sayde, Is there yet any man left of the house of Saul, that I may shew him mercie for Ionathans sake?
2 Samuel 9:2	And there was of the housholde of Saul a seruant whose name was Ziba, and when they had called him vnto Dauid, the King sayd vnto him, Art thou Ziba? And he sayd, I thy seruant am he.
2 Samuel 9:3	Then the King sayd, Remayneth there yet none of the house of Saul, on whome I may shewe the mercie of God? Ziba then answered the King, Ionathan hath yet a sonne lame of his feete.
2 Samuel 9:4	Then the King said vnto him, Where is he? And Ziba said vnto the King, Behold, he is in the house of Machir ye sonne of Ammiel of Lo-debar.
2 Samuel 9:5	Then King Dauid sent, and tooke him out of the house of Machir the sonne of Ammiel of Lo-debar.
2 Samuel 9:6	Nowe when Mephibosheth the sonne of Ionathan, the sonne of Saul was come vnto Dauid, he fel on his face, and did reuerence. And Dauid sayde, Mephibosheth? And he answered, Beholde thy seruant.
2 Samuel 9:7	Then Dauid sayd vnto him, Feare not: for I wil surely shewe thee kindnes for Ionathan thy fathers sake, and will restore thee all the fieldes of Saul thy father, and thou shalt eate bread at my table continually.
2 Samuel 9:8	And he bowed himselfe and sayd, What is thy seruant, that thou shouldest looke vpon such a dead dog as I am?
2 Samuel 9:9	Then the king called Ziba Sauls seruant, and said vnto him, I haue giue vnto thy masters sonne all that perteined to Saul and to all his house.
2 Samuel 9:10	Thou therefore and thy sonnes and thy seruantes shall till the lande for him, and bring in that thy masters sonne may haue foode to eate. And Mephibosheth thy masters sonne shall eate bread alway at my table (nowe Ziba had fifteene sonnes, and twentie seruants)
2 Samuel 9:11	Then sayd Ziba vnto the King, According to all that my lord the King hath commaded his seruant, so shall thy seruat do, that Mephibosheth may eate at my table, as one of the Kings sonnes.
2 Samuel 9:12	Mephibosheth also had a yong sonne named Micha, and all that dwelled in the house of Ziba, were seruants vnto Mephibosheth.
2 Samuel 9:13	And Mephibosheth dwelt in Ierusalem: for he did eate continually at the Kings table, and was lame on both his feete.
2 Samuel 10:1	After this, the King of the children of Ammon dyed, and Hanun his sonne reigned in his steade.
2 Samuel 10:2	Then sayde Dauid, I will shewe kindnesse vnto Hanun the sonne of Nahash, as his father shewed kindnesse vnto me. And Dauid sent his seruantes to comfort him for his father. So Dauids seruants came into the lande of the children of Ammon.
2 Samuel 10:3	And the princes of the children of Ammon sayde vnto Hanun their lorde, Thinkest thou that Dauid doth honour thy father, that he hath sent comforters to thee? hath not Dauid rather sent his seruants vnto thee, to search the citie, and to spie it out, and to ouerthrow it?
2 Samuel 10:4	Wherefore Hanun tooke Dauids seruants, and shaued off the halfe of their beard, and cut off their garments in the middle, euen to their buttockes, and sent them away.
2 Samuel 10:5	When it was told vnto Dauid, he sent to meete them (for the men were exceedingly ashamed) and the King sayde, Tary at Iericho, vntill your beards be growen, then returne.
2 Samuel 10:6	And when the children of Ammon sawe that they stanke in the sight of Dauid, the children of Ammon sent and hired the Aramites of the house of Rehob, and the Aramites of Zoba, twentie thousande footemen, and of King Maacah a thousand men, and of Ish-tob twelue thousande men.
2 Samuel 10:7	And when Dauid heard of it, he sent Ioab, and all the hoste of the strong men.
2 Samuel 10:8	And the children of Ammon came out, and put their armie in araye at the entring in of the gate: and the Aramites of Zoba, and of Rehob, and of Ish-tob, and of Maacah were by themselues in the fielde.
2 Samuel 10:9	When Ioab saw that the front of the battel was against him before and behinde, he chose of all the choyse of Israel, and put them in aray against the Aramites.
2 Samuel 10:10	And the rest of the people hee deliuered into the hande of Abishai his brother, that hee might put them in aray against the children of Ammon.
2 Samuel 10:11	And he sayde, If the Aramites be stronger then I, thou shalt helpe me, and if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee, I will come and succour thee.
2 Samuel 10:12	Be strong and let vs be valiant for our people, and for the cities of our God, and let the Lord do that which is good in his eyes.
2 Samuel 10:13	Then Ioab, and the people that was with him, ioyned in battel with the Aramites, who fled before him.
2 Samuel 10:14	And when the children of Ammon sawe that the Aramites fled, they fled also before Abishai, and entred into the citie. so Ioab returned from the children of Ammon, and came to Ierusalem.
2 Samuel 10:15	And when the Aramites sawe that they were smitten before Israel, they gathered them together.
2 Samuel 10:16	And Hadarezer sent, and brought out the Aramites that were beyond the Riuer: and they came to Helam, and Shobach the captaine of the hoste of Hadarezer went before them.
2 Samuel 10:17	When it was shewed Dauid, then he gathered all Israel together, and passed ouer Iorden and came to Helam: and the Aramites set themselues in aray against Dauid, and fought with him:
2 Samuel 10:18	And the Aramites fled before Israel: and Dauid destroyed seuen hundreth charets of the Aramites, and fourtie thousande horsemen, and smote Shobach the captaine of his hoste, who dyed there.
2 Samuel 10:19	And when all the Kings, that were seruants to Hadarezer, saw that they fell before Israel, they made peace with Israel, and serued them. and the Aramites feared to helpe the children of Ammon any more.
2 Samuel 11:1	And when the yeere was expired in the time when Kinges goe forth to battell, Dauid sent Ioab, and his seruantes with him, and all Israel, who destroyed the children of Ammon, and besieged Rabbah: but Dauid remayned in Ierusalem.
2 Samuel 11:2	And when it was euening tide, Dauid arose out of his bed, and walked vpon the roofe of the Kings palace: and from the roofe he sawe a woman washing her selfe: and the woman was very beautifull to looke vpon.
2 Samuel 11:3	And Dauid sent and inquired what woman it was: and one sayde, Is not this Bath-sheba the daughter of Eliam, wife to Vriah the Hittite?
2 Samuel 11:4	Then Dauid sent messengers, and tooke her away: and she came vnto him and he lay with her: (now she was purified from her vncleannes) and she returned vnto her house.
2 Samuel 11:5	And the woman conceiued: therefore shee sent and tolde Dauid, and sayd, I am with childe.
2 Samuel 11:6	Then Dauid sent to Ioab, saying, Send me Vriah the Hittite. And Ioab sent Vriah to Dauid.
2 Samuel 11:7	And when Vriah came vnto him, Dauid demanded him how Ioab did, and howe the people fared, and how the warre prospered.
2 Samuel 11:8	Afterward Dauid said to Vriah, Go downe to thine house, and wash thy feete. So Vriah departed out of the Kings palace, and the king sent a present after him.
2 Samuel 11:9	But Vriah slept at the doore of the Kings palace with all the seruants of his lord, and went not downe to his house.
2 Samuel 11:10	Then they tolde Dauid, saying, Vriah went not downe to his house: and Dauid saide vnto Vriah, Commest thou not from thy iourney? why didst thou not go downe to thine house?
2 Samuel 11:11	Then Vriah answered Dauid, The Arke and Israel, and Iudah dwell in tents: and my lord Ioab and the seruants of my lord abide in the open fields: shall I then go into mine house to eate and drinke, and lie with my wife? by thy life, and by the life of thy soule, I will not do this thing.
2 Samuel 11:12	Then Dauid sayd vnto Vriah, Tary yet this day, and to morow I will send thee away. So Vriah abode in Ierusalem that day, and the morowe.
2 Samuel 11:13	Then Dauid called him, and hee did eate and drinke before him, and he made him drunke: and at euen he went out to lie on his couch with the seruants of his Lord, but went not downe to his house.
2 Samuel 11:14	And on the morowe Dauid wrote a letter to Ioab, and sent it by the hand of Vriah.
2 Samuel 11:15	And he wrote thus in the letter, Put ye Vriah in the forefront of the strength of the battell, and recule ye backe from him, that he may be smitten, and die.
2 Samuel 11:16	So when Ioab besieged the citie, he assigned Vriah vnto a place, where he knewe that strong men were.
2 Samuel 11:17	And the men of the citie came out, and fought with Ioab: and there fell of the people of the seruants of Dauid, and Vriah the Hittite also dyed.
2 Samuel 11:18	Then Ioab sent and tolde Dauid all the things concerning the warre,
2 Samuel 11:19	And he charged the messenger, saying, When thou hast made an ende of telling all the matters of the warre vnto the King,
2 Samuel 11:20	And if the kings anger arise, so that he say vnto thee, Wherefore approched ye vnto the citie to fight? knewe ye not that they would hurle from the wall?
2 Samuel 11:21	Who smote Abimelech sonne of Ierubesheth? did not a woman cast a piece of a milstone vpon him from the wall, and he died in Thebez? why went you nie the wall? Then say thou, Thy seruant Vriah the Hittite is also dead.
2 Samuel 11:22	So the messenger went, and came and shewed Dauid all that Ioab had sent him for.
2 Samuel 11:23	And the messenger said vnto Dauid, Certainely the men preuailed against vs, and came out vnto vs into the field, but we pursued them vnto the entring of the gate.
2 Samuel 11:24	But the shooters shot from ye wall against thy seruants, and some of the Kings seruants be dead: and thy seruant Vriah the Hittite is also dead.
2 Samuel 11:25	Then Dauid said vnto the messenger, Thus shalt thou say vnto Ioab, Let not this thing trouble thee: for the sworde deuoureth one as well as another: make thy battell more strong against the citie and destroy it, and encourage thou him.
2 Samuel 11:26	And when the wife of Vriah heard that her husband Vriah was dead, she mourned for her husband.
2 Samuel 11:27	So when the mourning was past, Dauid sent and tooke her into his house, and shee became his wife, and bare him a sonne: but ye thing that Dauid had done, displeased the Lord.
2 Samuel 12:1	Then the Lord sent Nathan vnto Dauid, who came to him, and sayd vnto him, There were two men in one citie, the one riche, and the other poore.
2 Samuel 12:2	The rich man had exceeding many sheepe and oxen:
2 Samuel 12:3	But the poore had none at all, saue one litle sheepe which he had bought, and nourished vp: and it grew vp with him, and with his children also, and did eate of his owne morsels, and dranke of his owne cup, and slept in his bosome, and was vnto him as his daughter.
2 Samuel 12:4	Now there came a stranger vnto the rich man, who refused to take of his owne sheepe, and of his owne oxen to dresse for the stranger that was come vnto him, but tooke the poore mans sheepe, and dressed it for the man that was come to him.
2 Samuel 12:5	Then Dauid was exceeding wroth with the man, and sayde to Nathan, As the Lord liueth, the man that hath done this thing, shall surely dye,
2 Samuel 12:6	And he shall restore the lambe foure folde, because he did this thing, and had no pitie thereof.
2 Samuel 12:7	Then Nathan sayd to Dauid, Thou art the man. Thus sayth the Lord God of Israel, I anoynted thee King ouer Israel, and deliuered thee out of the hand of Saul,
2 Samuel 12:8	And gaue thee thy lordes house, and thy lords wiues into thy bosome, and gaue thee the house of Israel, and of Iudah, and would moreouer (if that had bene too litle) haue giuen thee such and such things.
2 Samuel 12:9	Wherefore hast thou despised the commandement of the Lord, to doe euill in his sight? thou hast killed Vriah the Hittite with ye sworde, and hast taken his wife to be thy wife, and hast slaine him with the sworde of the children of Ammon.
2 Samuel 12:10	Now therefore the sworde shall neuer depart from thine house, because thou hast despised me, and taken the wife of Vriah the Hittite to be thy wife.
2 Samuel 12:11	Thus sayth the Lord, Behold, I will rayse vp euil against thee out of thine owne house, and will take thy wiues before thine eyes, and giue them vnto thy neighbour, and he shall lie with thy wiues in the sight of this sunne.
2 Samuel 12:12	For thou diddest it secretly: but I will doe this thing before all Israel, and before the sunne.
2 Samuel 12:13	Then Dauid sayde vnto Nathan, I haue sinned against the Lord. And Nathan sayde vnto Dauid, The Lord also hath put away thy sinne, thou shalt not die.
2 Samuel 12:14	Howbeit because by this deede thou hast caused the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme, the childe that is borne vnto thee shall surely die.
2 Samuel 12:15	So Nathan departed vnto his house: and the Lord stroke the childe that Vriahs wife bare vnto Dauid, and it was sicke.
2 Samuel 12:16	Dauid therefore besought God for the childe, and fasted and went in, and lay all night vpon the earth.
2 Samuel 12:17	Then the Elders of his house arose to come vnto him, and to cause him to rise from the groud: but he would not, neither did he eate meate with them.
2 Samuel 12:18	So on the seuenth day the child dyed: and the seruants of Dauid feared to tell him that the childe was dead: for they sayde, Beholde, while the childe was aliue, we spake vnto him, and he woulde not hearken vnto our voyce: how then shall we say vnto him, The childe is dead, to vexe him more?
2 Samuel 12:19	But when Dauid sawe that his seruantes whispered, Dauid perceiued that the childe was dead: therefore Dauid sayde vnto his seruants, Is the childe dead? And they sayd, He is dead.
2 Samuel 12:20	Then Dauid arose from the earth, and washed and anoynted himselfe, and changed his apparell, and came into the house of the Lord, and worshipped, and afterward came to his owne house, and bade that they should set bread before him, and he did eate.
2 Samuel 12:21	Then saide his seruants vnto him, What thing is this, that thou hast done? thou diddest fast and weepe for the childe while it was aliue, but when the childe was dead, thou diddest rise vp, and eate meate.
2 Samuel 12:22	And he sayde, While the childe was yet aliue, I fasted, and wept: for I sayde, Who can tell whether God will haue mercy on me, that the childe may liue?
2 Samuel 12:23	But now being dead, wherefore shoulde I now fast? Can I bring him againe any more? I shall goe to him, but he shall not returne to me.
2 Samuel 12:24	And Dauid comforted Bath-sheba his wife, and went in vnto her, and lay with her, and she bare a sonne, and he called his name Salomon: also the Lord loued him.
2 Samuel 12:25	For the Lord had sent by Nathan the Prophet: therefore he called his name Iedidiah, because the Lord loued him.
2 Samuel 12:26	Then Ioab fought against Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and tooke the citie of the kingdome.
2 Samuel 12:27	Therefore Ioab sent messengers to Dauid, saying, I haue fought against Rabbah, and haue taken the citie of waters.
2 Samuel 12:28	Now therefore gather the rest of the people together, and besiege the city, that thou mayest take it, lest the victorie be attributed to me.
2 Samuel 12:29	So Dauid gathered al the people together, and went against Rabbah, and besieged it, and tooke it.
2 Samuel 12:30	And he tooke their Kings crowne from his head, (which weighed a talent of golde, with precious stones) and it was set on Dauids head: and he brought away the spoyle of the citie in exceeding great abundance.
2 Samuel 12:31	And he carryed away the people that was therein, and put them vnder sawes, and vnder yron harowes, and vnder axes of yron, and cast them into the tyle kylne: euen thus did he with all the cities of the children of Ammon. Then Dauid and all the people returned vnto Ierusalem.
2 Samuel 13:1	Now after this so it was, that Absalom the sonne of Dauid hauing a fayre sister, whose name was Tamar, Amnon the sonne of Dauid loued her.
2 Samuel 13:2	And Amnon was so sore vexed, that he fell sicke for his sister Tamar: for she was a virgin, and it seemed hard to Amnon to doe any thing to her.
2 Samuel 13:3	But Amnon had a friend called Ionadab, the sonne of Shimeah Dauids brother: and Ionadab was a very subtile man.
2 Samuel 13:4	Who sayde vnto him, Why art thou the Kings sonne so leane from day to day? wilt thou not tell me? Then Amnon answered him, I loue Tamar my brother Absaloms sister.
2 Samuel 13:5	And Ionadab sayd vnto him, Lie downe on thy bed, and make thy selfe sicke: and when thy father shall come to see thee, say vnto him, I pray thee, let my sister Tamar come, and giue me meate, and let her dresse meate in my sight, that I may see it, and eate it of her hand.
2 Samuel 13:6	So Amnon lay downe, and made himselfe sicke: and when the King came to see him, Amnon sayde vnto the King, I pray thee, let Tamar my sister come, and make me a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may receiue meate at her hand.
2 Samuel 13:7	Then Dauid sent home to Tamar, saying, Goe now to thy brother Amnons house, and dresse him meate.
2 Samuel 13:8	So Tamar went to her brother Amnons house, and he lay downe: and she tooke floure, and knead it, and made cakes in his sight, and did bake the cakes.
2 Samuel 13:9	And she tooke a pan, and powred them out before him, but he would not eat. Then Amnon saide, Cause ye euery man to goe out from me: so euery man went out from him.
2 Samuel 13:10	Then Amnon said vnto Tamar, Bring the meate into the chamber, that I may eate of thine hand. And Tamar tooke the cakes which shee had made, and brought them into the chamber to Amnon her brother.
2 Samuel 13:11	And when she had set them before him to eate, he tooke her, and sayd vnto her, Come, lye with me, my sister.
2 Samuel 13:12	But shee answered him, Nay, my brother, doe not force me: for no such thing ought to be done in Israel: commit not this follie.
2 Samuel 13:13	And I, whither shall I cause my shame to goe? and thou shalt be as one of the fooles in Israel: now therefore, I pray thee, speake to the King, for he will not denie me vnto thee.
2 Samuel 13:14	Howbeit he would not hearken vnto her voyce, but being stronger then she, forced her, and lay with her.
2 Samuel 13:15	Then Amnon hated her exceedingly, so that the hatred wherewith he hated her, was greater then the loue, wherewith hee had loued her: and Amnon sayde vnto her, Vp, get thee hence.
2 Samuel 13:16	And she answered him, There is no cause: this euill (to put mee away) is greater then the other that thou diddest vnto me: but he would not heare her,
2 Samuel 13:17	But called his seruant that serued him, and sayd, Put this woman now out from me, and locke the doore after her.
2 Samuel 13:18	(And she had a garment of diuers coulours vpon her: for with such garments were the Kings daughters that were virgins, apparelled) Then his seruant brought her out, and locked the doore after her.
2 Samuel 13:19	And Tamar put ashes on her head and rent the garment of diuers colours which was on her, and layde her hand on her head, and went her way crying.
2 Samuel 13:20	And Absalom her brother sayd vnto her, Hath Amnon thy brother bene with thee? Now yet be still, my sister: he is thy brother: let not this thing grieue thine heart. So Tamar remayned desolate in her brother Absaloms house.
2 Samuel 13:21	But when King Dauid heard all these things, he was very wroth.
2 Samuel 13:22	And Absalom sayde vnto his brother Amnon neither good nor bad: for Absalom hated Amnon, because he had forced his sister Tamar.
2 Samuel 13:23	And after the time of two yeeres, Absalom had sheepesherers in Baal-hazor, which is beside Ephraim, and Absalom called all the Kings sonnes.
2 Samuel 13:24	And Absalom came to the King and sayd, Beholde now, thy seruant hath sheepesherers: I pray thee, that the King with his seruants would goe with thy seruant.
2 Samuel 13:25	But the King answered Absalom, Nay my sonne, I pray thee, let vs not goe all, lest we be chargeable vnto thee. Yet Absalom lay sore vpon him: howbeit he would not go, but thanked him.
2 Samuel 13:26	Then sayd Absalom, But, I pray thee, shall not my brother Amnon goe with vs? And the king answered him, Why should he go with thee?
2 Samuel 13:27	But Absalom was instant vpon him, and he sent Amnon with him, and all the Kings children.
2 Samuel 13:28	Now had Absalom commanded his seruants, saying, Marke now when Amnons heart is merry with wine, and when I say vnto you, Smite Amnon, kill him, feare not, for haue not I commanded you? be bold therefore, and play the men.
2 Samuel 13:29	And the seruantes of Absalom did vnto Amnon, as Absalom had commanded: and al the Kings sonnes arose, and euery man gate him vp vpon his mule, and fled.
2 Samuel 13:30	And while they were in the way, tydings came to Dauid, saying, Absalom hath slaine al the Kings sonnes, and there is not one of them left.
2 Samuel 13:31	Then the King arose, and tare his garments, and lay on the ground, and all his seruants stoode by with their clothes rent.
2 Samuel 13:32	And Ionadab the sonne of Shimeah Dauids brother answered and sayde, Let not my lord suppose that they haue slayne all the yong men the Kings sonnes: for Amnon onely is dead, because Absalom had reported so, since hee forced his sister Tamar.
2 Samuel 13:33	Nowe therefore let not my lord the King take the thing so grieuously, to thinke that all ye Kings sonnes are dead: for Amnon only is dead.
2 Samuel 13:34	Then Absalom fled: and the yong man that kept the watch, lift vp his eyes, and looked, and behold, there came much people by the way of the hill side behinde him.
2 Samuel 13:35	And Ionadab said vnto the King, Behold, ye Kings sonnes come: as thy seruant sayd, so it is.
2 Samuel 13:36	And assoone as hee had left speaking, behold, the Kings sonnes came, and lift vp their voyces, and wept: and the King also and all his seruants wept exceedingly sore.
2 Samuel 13:37	But Absalom fled away, and went to Talmai the sonne of Ammihur King of Geshur: and Dauid mourned for his sonne euery day.
2 Samuel 13:38	So Absalom fled, and went to Geshur, and was there three yeeres.
2 Samuel 13:39	And King Dauid desired to go forth vnto Absalom, because he was pacified concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead.
2 Samuel 14:1	Then Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah perceyued, that the Kings heart was toward Absalom,
2 Samuel 14:2	And Ioab sent to Tekoah, and brought thence a subtile woman, and sayd vnto her, I pray thee, fayne thy selfe to mourne, and nowe put on mourning apparel, and anoynt not thy selfe with oyle: but be as a woman that had now long time mourned for the dead.
2 Samuel 14:3	And come to the King, and speake on this maner vnto him, (for Ioab taught her what she should say).
2 Samuel 14:4	Then the woman of Tekoah spake vnto the king, and fel downe on her face to the ground, and did obeysance, and sayd, Helpe, O King.
2 Samuel 14:5	Then the King sayd vnto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, I am in deede a widow, and mine husband is dead:
2 Samuel 14:6	And thine handmayd had two sonnes, and they two stroue together in the fielde: (and there was none to part them) so the one smote the other, and slew him.
2 Samuel 14:7	And beholde, the whole familie is risen against thine handmayde, and they sayde, Deliuer him that smote his brother, that we may kill him for the soule of his brother whome hee slewe, that we may destroy the heire also: so they shall quenche my sparkle which is left, and shall not leaue to mine husband neither name nor posteritie vpon the earth.
2 Samuel 14:8	And the King said vnto the woman, Go to thine house, and I wil giue a charge for thee.
2 Samuel 14:9	Then the woman of Tekoah said vnto the King, My lord, O King, this trespas be on me, and on my fathers house, and the King and his throne be giltlesse.
2 Samuel 14:10	And the King sayde, Bring him to me that speaketh against thee, and he shall touche thee no more.
2 Samuel 14:11	Then said she, I pray thee, let the King remember the Lord thy God, that thou wouldest not suffer many reuengers of blood to destroy, lest they slay my sonne. And he answered, As the Lord liueth, there shall not one heare of thy sonne fall to the earth.
2 Samuel 14:12	Then the woman said, I pray thee, let thine handmayde speake a worde to my lord the King. And he sayd, Say on.
2 Samuel 14:13	Then the woman sayde, Wherefore then hast thou thought such a thing against the people of God? or why doeth the King, as one which is faultie, speake this thing, that he will not bring againe his banished?
2 Samuel 14:14	For we must needes dye, and we are as water spilt on the ground, which cannot be gathered vp againe: neither doeth God spare any person, yet doeth he appoynt meanes, not to cast out from him, him that is expelled.
2 Samuel 14:15	Nowe therefore that I am come to speake of this thing vnto my lord the King, the cause is that the people haue made me afrayd: therefore thine handmayde sayd, Nowe will I speake vnto the King: it may be that the King will perfourme the request of his handmayde.
2 Samuel 14:16	For the King wil heare, to deliuer his handmayde out of the hande of the man that woulde destroy mee, and also my sonne from the inheritance of God.
2 Samuel 14:17	Therefore thine handmaid sayd, The word of my lord the King shall now be comfortable: for my lorde the King is euen as an Angel of God in hearing of good and bad: therefore the Lord thy God be with thee.
2 Samuel 14:18	Then the King answered, and said vnto the woman, Hide not from me, I pray thee, the thing that I shall aske thee. And the woman sayde, Let my lord the King now speake.
2 Samuel 14:19	And the King said, Is not the hand of Ioab with thee in all this? Then the woman answered, and sayd, As thy soule liueth, my lord the King, I will not turne to the right hande nor to the left, from ought that my lorde the King hath spoken: for euen thy seruant Ioab bade mee, and he put all these wordes in the mouth of thine handmayde.
2 Samuel 14:20	For to the intent that I should chage the forme of speach, thy seruant Ioab hath done this thing: but my lord is wise according to the wisdome of an Angel of God to vnderstande all things that are in the earth.
2 Samuel 14:21	And the King sayde vnto Ioab, Beholde nowe, I haue done this thing: go then, and bring the yong man Absalom againe.
2 Samuel 14:22	And Ioab fell to the grounde on his face, and bowed himselfe, and thanked the King. Then Ioab sayde, This day thy seruant knoweth, that I haue found grace in thy sight, my lord the King, in that the King hath fulfilled the request of his seruant.
2 Samuel 14:23	And Ioab arose, and went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to Ierusalem.
2 Samuel 14:24	And the King sayde, Let him turne to his owne house, and not see my face. So Absalom turned to his owne house, and saw not the Kings face.
2 Samuel 14:25	Nowe in all Israel there was none to be so much praysed for beautie as Absalom: from the sole of his foote euen to the toppe of his head there was no blemish in him.
2 Samuel 14:26	And when he polled his head, (for at euery yeeres ende he polled it: because it was too heauie for him, therefore he polled it) he weyghed the heare of his head at two hundreth shekels by the Kings weight.
2 Samuel 14:27	And Absalom had three sonnes, and one daughter named Tamar, which was a fayre woman to looke vpon.
2 Samuel 14:28	So Absalom dwelt the space of two yeres in Ierusalem, and saw not the Kings face.
2 Samuel 14:29	Therefore Absalom sent for Ioab to sende him to the King, but he would not come to him: and when he sent againe, he would not come.
2 Samuel 14:30	Therefore he sayde vnto his seruants, Beholde, Ioab hath a fielde by my place, and hath barley therein: go, and set it on fire: and Absaloms seruants set the field on fire.
2 Samuel 14:31	Then Ioab arose, and came to Absalom vnto his house, and sayd vnto him, Wherefore haue thy seruants burnt my field with fire?
2 Samuel 14:32	And Absalom answered Ioab, Beholde, I sent for thee, saying, Come thou hither, and I wil send thee to the King for to say, Wherefore am I come from Geshur? It had bene better for me to haue bene there still: nowe therefore let mee see the Kings face: and if there be any trespasse in me, let him kill me.
2 Samuel 14:33	Then Ioab came to the King, and told him: and he called for Absalom, who came to the King, and bowed himselfe to the grounde on his face before the King, and the King kissed Absalom.
2 Samuel 15:1	After this, Absalom prepared him charets and horses, and fiftie men to runne before him.
2 Samuel 15:2	And Absalom rose vp early, and stoode hard by the entring in of the gate: and euery man that had any matter, and came to the King for iudgement, him did Absalom call vnto him, and sayde, Of what citie art thou? And he answered, Thy seruant is of one of the tribes of Israel.
2 Samuel 15:3	Then Absalom said vnto him, See, thy matters are good and righteous, but there is no man deputed of the King to heare thee.
2 Samuel 15:4	Absalom sayd moreouer, Oh that I were made Iudge in the lande, that euery man which hath any matter of controuersie, might come to me, that I might do him iustice.
2 Samuel 15:5	And when any man came neere to him, and did him obeisance, he put forth his hand, and tooke him, and kissed him.
2 Samuel 15:6	And on this maner did Absalom to al Israel, that came to the King for iudgement: so Absalom stale the hearts of the men of Israel.
2 Samuel 15:7	And after fourtie yeeres, Absalom sayd vnto the King, I pray thee, let me go to Hebron, and render my vowe which I haue vowed vnto the Lord.
2 Samuel 15:8	For thy seruant vowed a vowe when I remayned at Geshur, in Aram, saying, If the Lord shall bring me againe in deede to Ierusalem, I will serue the Lord.
2 Samuel 15:9	And the King sayd vnto him, Go in peace. So he arose, and went to Hebron.
2 Samuel 15:10	Then Absalom sent spyes throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, When yee heare the sound of the trumpet, Ye shall say, Absalom reigneth in Hebron.
2 Samuel 15:11	And with Absalom went two hundreth men out of Ierusalem, that were called: and they went in their simplicitie, knowing nothing.
2 Samuel 15:12	Also Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite Dauids counseller, from his citie Giloh, while he offred sacrifices: and the treason was great: for the people encreased still with Absalom.
2 Samuel 15:13	Then came a messenger to Dauid, saying, The hearts of the men of Israel are turned after Absalom.
2 Samuel 15:14	Then Dauid sayd vnto all his seruants that were with him at Ierusalem, Vp, and let vs flee: for we shall not escape from Absalom: make speede to depart, lest he come suddenly and take vs, and bring euill vpon vs, and smite the citie with the edge of the sworde.
2 Samuel 15:15	And the Kings seruants sayd vnto him, Behold, thy seruants are ready to do according to all that my lord the King shall appoynt.
2 Samuel 15:16	So the King departed and all his houshold after him, and the King left ten concubines to keepe the house.
2 Samuel 15:17	And the King went forth and all the people after him, and taried in a place farre off.
2 Samuel 15:18	And all his seruants went about him, and all the Cherethites and all the Pelethites and all the Gittites, euen sixe hudreth men which were come after him from Gath, went before the King.
2 Samuel 15:19	Then sayde the King to Ittai the Gittite, Wherefore commest thou also with vs? Returne aud abide with the King, for thou art a stranger: depart thou therefore to thy place.
2 Samuel 15:20	Thou camest yesterday, and should I cause thee to wander to day and go with vs? I will goe whither I can: therefore returne thou and cary againe thy brethren: mercy and trueth be with thee.
2 Samuel 15:21	And Ittai answered the King, and sayde, As the Lord liueth, and as my lord the King liueth, in what place my lord the King shalbe, whether in death or life, euen there surely will thy seruant bee.
2 Samuel 15:22	Then Dauid sayd to Ittai, Come, and go forward. And Ittai the Gittite went, and all his men, and all the children that were with him.
2 Samuel 15:23	And all the countrey wept with a loude voyce, and all the people went forward, but the King passed ouer the brooke Kidron: and all the people went ouer toward the way of ye wildernes.
2 Samuel 15:24	And lo, Zadok also was there, and all the Leuites with him, bearing the Arke of the couenant of God: and they set downe the Arke of God, and Abiathar went vp vntill the people were all come out of the citie.
2 Samuel 15:25	Then the King said vnto Zadok, Carie the Arke of God againe into the citie: if I shall finde fauour in the eyes of the Lord, he will bring me againe, and shewe me both it, and the Tabernacle thereof.
2 Samuel 15:26	But if he thus say, I haue no delite in thee, behold, here am I, let him doe to me as seemeth good in his eyes.
2 Samuel 15:27	The King sayde againe vnto Zadok the Priest, Art not thou a Seer? returne into the citie in peace, and your two sonnes with you: to wit, Ahimaaz thy sonne, and Ionathan the sonne of Abiathar.
2 Samuel 15:28	Behold, I wil tarie in the fieldes of the wildernesse, vntill there come some worde from you to be tolde me.
2 Samuel 15:29	Zadok therefore and Abiathar caried the Arke of God againe to Ierusalem, and they taried there.
2 Samuel 15:30	And Dauid went vp the mount of oliues and wept as he went vp, and had his head couered, and went barefooted: and al the people that was with him, had euery man his head couered, and as they went vp, they wept.
2 Samuel 15:31	Then one tolde Dauid, saying, Ahithophel is one of them that haue cospired with Absalom: and Dauid sayde, O Lord, I pray thee, turne the counsell of Ahithophel into foolishnesse.
2 Samuel 15:32	Then Dauid came to the toppe of the mount where he worshipped God: and beholde, Hushai the Archite came against him with his coate torne, and hauing earth vpon his head.
2 Samuel 15:33	Vnto whom Dauid sayd, If thou goe with me, thou shalt be a burthen vnto me.
2 Samuel 15:34	But if thou returne to the citie, and say vnto Absalom, I wil be thy seruant, O King, (as I haue bene in time past thy fathers seruant, so will I now be thy seruant) then thou mayest bring me the counsell of Ahithophel to nought.
2 Samuel 15:35	And hast thou not there with thee Zadok and Abiathar the Priests? therefore what so euer thou shalt heare out of the Kings house, thou shalt shew to Zadok and Abiathar the Priests.
2 Samuel 15:36	Beholde, there are with them their two sonnes: Ahimaaz Zadoks sonne, and Ionathan Abiathars sonne: by them also shall ye send me euery thing that ye can heare.
2 Samuel 15:37	So Hushai Dauids friend went into the citie: and Absalom came into Ierusalem.
2 Samuel 16:1	When Dauid was a little past the top of the hill, behold, Ziba the seruant of Mephibosheth mette him with a couple of asses sadled, and vpon them two hundreth cakes of bread, and an hundreth bunches of raisins, and an hundreth of dryed figges, and a bottel of wine.
2 Samuel 16:2	And the King said vnto Ziba, What meanest thou by these? And Ziba said, They be asses for the kings housholde to ride on, and bread and dryed figges for the yong men to eate, and wine, that the faint may drinke in the wildernesse.
2 Samuel 16:3	And the king sayde, But where is thy masters sonne? Then Ziba answered the King, Beholde, he remayneth in Ierusalem: for he sayde, This day shall the house of Israel restore me the kingdome of my father.
2 Samuel 16:4	Then said the King to Ziba, Behold, thine are all that perteined vnto Mephibosheth. And Ziba saide, I beseech thee, let me finde grace in thy sight, my lord, O King.
2 Samuel 16:5	And when king Dauid came to Bahurim, behold, thence came out a man of the familie of the house of Saul, named Shimei the sonne of Gera: and he came out, and cursed.
2 Samuel 16:6	And he cast stones at Dauid, and at all the seruants of King Dauid: and all the people, and all the men of warre were on his right hande, and on his left.
2 Samuel 16:7	And thus sayde Shimei when hee cursed, Come forth, come foorth thou murtherer, and wicked man.
2 Samuel 16:8	The Lord hath brought vpon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned: and the Lord hath deliuered thy kingdome into the hand of Absalom thy sonne: and beholde, thou art taken in thy wickednesse, because thou art a murtherer.
2 Samuel 16:9	Then saide Abishai the sonne of Zeruiah vnto the King, Why doeth this dead dog curse my lord the King? let me goe, I pray thee, and take away his head.
2 Samuel 16:10	But the King saide, What haue I to doe with you, ye sonnes of Zeruiah? for he curseth, eue because the Lord hath bidden him curse Dauid: who dare then say, Wherfore hast thou done so?
2 Samuel 16:11	And Dauid sayd to Abishai, and to all his seruants, Beholde, my sonne which came out of mine owne bowels, seeketh my life: then howe much more now may this sonne of Iemini? Suffer him to curse: for the Lord hath bidden him.
2 Samuel 16:12	It may be that the Lord will looke on mine affliction, and doe me good for his cursing this day.
2 Samuel 16:13	And as Dauid and his men went by the way, Shimei went by the side of the mountaine ouer against him, and cursed as he went, and threw stones against him, and cast dust.
2 Samuel 16:14	Then came the King and all the people that were with him wearie, and refreshed them selues there.
2 Samuel 16:15	And Absalom, and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Ierusalem, and Ahithophel with him.
2 Samuel 16:16	And when Hushai the Archite Dauids friend was come vnto Absalom, Hushai said vnto Absalom, God saue the King, God saue the King.
2 Samuel 16:17	Then Absalom sayd to Hushai, Is this thy kindenes to thy friend? Why wentest thou not with thy friend?
2 Samuel 16:18	Hushai then answered vnto Absalom, Nay, but whome the Lord, and this people, and all the men of Israel chuse, his will I be, and with him will I dwell.
2 Samuel 16:19	And moreouer vnto whome shall I doe seruice? not to his sonne? as I serued before thy father, so will I before thee.
2 Samuel 16:20	Then spake Absalom to Ahithophel, Giue counsell what we shall doe.
2 Samuel 16:21	And Ahithophel said vnto Absalom, Goe in to thy fathers concubines, which he hath left to keepe the house: and when all Israel shall heare, that thou art abhorred of thy father, the hands of all that are with thee, shall be strong.
2 Samuel 16:22	So they spread Absalom a tent vpon the top of the house, and Absalom went in to his fathers concubines in the sight of all Israel.
2 Samuel 16:23	And the counsell of Ahithophel which he counseled in those dayes, was like as one had asked counsell at the oracle of God: so was all the counsel of Ahithophel both with Dauid and with Absalom.
2 Samuel 17:1	Moreouer Ahithophel said to Absalom, Let me chuse out now twelue thousand men, and I will vp and follow after Dauid this night,
2 Samuel 17:2	And I will come vpon him: for he is wearie, and weake handed: so I will feare him, and all the people that are with him, shall flee, and I will smite the King onely,
2 Samuel 17:3	And I will bring againe all the people vnto thee, and when all shall returne, (the man whome thou seekest being slaine) all the people shalbe in peace.
2 Samuel 17:4	And the saying pleased Absalom well, and all the Elders of Israel.
2 Samuel 17:5	Then said Absalom, Call now Hushai the Archite also, and let vs heare likewise what he sayth.
2 Samuel 17:6	So when Hushai came to Absalom, Absalom spake vnto him, saying, Ahithophel hath spoken thus: shall we doe after his saying, or no? tell thou.
2 Samuel 17:7	Hushai then answered vnto Absalom, The counsel that Ahithophel hath giuen, is not good at this time.
2 Samuel 17:8	For, said Hushai, thou knowest thy father, and his men, that they be strong men, and are chafed in minde as a beare robbed of her whelps in the fielde: also thy father is a valiant warrier, and will not lodge with the people.
2 Samuel 17:9	Behold, he is hid now in some caue, or in some place: and though some of them be ouerthrowen at the first, yet the people shall heare, and say, The people that follow Absalom, be ouerthrowen.
2 Samuel 17:10	Then he also that is valiant whose heart is as the heart of a lion, shall shrinke and faint: for all Israel knoweth, that thy father is valiant, and they which be with him, stout men.
2 Samuel 17:11	Therefore my counsell is, that all Israel be gathered vnto thee, from Dan euen to Beer-sheba as the sand of the sea in nomber, and that thou goe to battell in thine owne person.
2 Samuel 17:12	So shall we come vpon him in some place, where we shall finde him, and we will vpon him as the dewe falleth on the ground: and of all the men that are with him, wee will not leaue him one.
2 Samuel 17:13	Moreouer if he be gotten into a citie, then shall all the men of Israel bring ropes to that citie, and we will draw it into the riuer, vntill there be not one small stone founde there.
2 Samuel 17:14	Then Absalom and all the men of Israel sayde, The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better, then the counsell of Ahithophel: for the Lord had determined to destroy the good counsell of Ahithophel, that the Lord might bring euill vpon Absalom.
2 Samuel 17:15	Then said Hushai vnto Zadok and to Abiathar the Priests, Of this and that maner did Ahithophel and the Elders of Israel counsell Absalom: and thus and thus haue I counseled.
2 Samuel 17:16	Now therefore sende quickely, and shewe Dauid, saying, Tarie not this night in the fieldes of the wildernesse, but rather get thee ouer, lest the King be deuoured and all the people that are with him.
2 Samuel 17:17	Now Ionathan and Ahimaaz abode by En-rogel: (for they might not be seene to come into the citie) and a maid went, and tolde them, and they went and shewed King Dauid.
2 Samuel 17:18	Neuerthelesse a yong man sawe them, and tolde it to Absalom. therefore they both departed quickely, and came to a mans house in Bahurim, who had a well in his court, into the which they went downe.
2 Samuel 17:19	And the wife tooke and spred a couering ouer the welles mouth, and spred ground corne thereon, that the thing should not be knowen.
2 Samuel 17:20	And when Absaloms seruants came to the wife into the house, they said, Where is Ahimaaz and Ionathan? And the woman answered them, They be gone ouer the brooke of water. And when they had sought them, and could not finde them, they returned to Ierusalem.
2 Samuel 17:21	And assoone as they were departed, the other came out of the well, and went and tolde King Dauid, and sayde vnto him, Vp, and get you quickely ouer the water: for such counsell hath Ahithophel giuen against you.
2 Samuel 17:22	Then Dauid arose, and all the people that were with him, and they went ouer Iorden vntil the dawning of the day, so that there lacked not one of them, that was not come ouer Iorden.
2 Samuel 17:23	Nowe when Ahithophel sawe that his counsell was not followed, he sadled his asse, and arose, and he went home vnto his citie, and put his houshold in order, and hanged him selfe, and dyed, and was buryed in his fathers graue.
2 Samuel 17:24	Then Dauid came to Mahanaim. And Absalom passed ouer Iorden, he, and all the men of Israel with him.
2 Samuel 17:25	And Absalom made Amasa captaine of the hoste in the stead of Ioab: which Amasa was a mans sonne named Ithra an Israelite, that went in to Abigail the daughter of Nahash, sister to Zeruiah Ioabs mother.
2 Samuel 17:26	So Israel and Absalom pitched in the land of Gilead.
2 Samuel 17:27	And when Dauid was come to Mahanaim, Shobi the sonne of Nahash out of Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and Machir the sonne of Ammiel out of Lo-debar, and Barzelai the Gileadite out of Rogel
2 Samuel 17:28	Brought beds, and basens, and earthen vessels, and wheat, and barley, and floure, and parched corne, and beanes, and lentiles, and parched corne.
2 Samuel 17:29	And they brought hony, and butter, and sheepe, and cheese of kine for Dauid and for the people that were with him, to eate: for they said, The people is hungry, and wearie, and thirstie in the wildernesse.
2 Samuel 18:1	Then Dauid numbred the people that were with him, and set ouer them captaines of thousands and captaines of hundreths.
2 Samuel 18:2	And Dauid sent foorth the third part of the people vnder the hand of Ioab, and the thirde part vnder the hand of Abishai Ioabs brother the sonne of Zeruiah: and the other third part vnder the hand of Ittai the Gittite. and the King said vnto the people, I will go with you my selfe also.
2 Samuel 18:3	But the people answered, Thou shalt not goe foorth: for if we flee away, they will not regarde vs, neither will they passe for vs, though halfe of vs were slaine: but thou art now worth ten thousande of vs: therefore nowe it is better that thou succour vs out of the citie.
2 Samuel 18:4	Then the King said vnto them, What seemeth you best, that I will doe. So the King stood by the gate side, and all the people came out by hundreths and by thousands.
2 Samuel 18:5	And the King commanded Ioab and Abishai, and Ittai, saying, Entreate the yong man Absalom gently for my sake. and all the people heard whe the King gaue al the captaines charge concerning Absalom.
2 Samuel 18:6	So the people went out into the fielde to meete Israel, and the battell was in the wood of Ephraim:
2 Samuel 18:7	Where the people of Israel were slaine before the seruants of Dauid: so there was a great slaughter that day, euen of twentie thousande.
2 Samuel 18:8	For the battel was skattered ouer all the countrey: and the wood deuoured much more people that day, then did the sworde.
2 Samuel 18:9	Nowe Absalom met the seruants of Dauid, and Absalom rode vpon a mule, and the mule came vnder a great thicke oke: and his head caught holde of the oke, and he was taken vp betweene the heauen and the earth: and the mule that was vnder him went away.
2 Samuel 18:10	And one that sawe it, tolde Ioab, saying, Beholde, I sawe Absalom hanged in an oke.
2 Samuel 18:11	Then Ioab saide vnto the man that tolde him, And hast thou in deede seene? why then diddest thou not there smite him to the grounde, and I woulde haue giuen thee ten shekels of siluer, and a girdle?
2 Samuel 18:12	Then the man saide vnto Ioab, Though I should receiue a thousande shekels of siluer in mine hande, yet woulde I not lay mine hande vpon the Kings sonne: for in our hearing the King charged thee, and Abishai, and Ittai, saying, Beware, least any touche the yong man Absalom.
2 Samuel 18:13	If I had done it, it had bene the danger of my life: for nothing can be hid from the King: yea, thou thy selfe wouldest haue bin against me.
2 Samuel 18:14	Then saide Ioab, I will not thus tary with thee. And he tooke three dartes in his hande, and thrust them through Absalom, while he was yet aliue in the middes of the oke.
2 Samuel 18:15	And tenne seruants that bare Ioabs armour, compassed about and smote Absalom, and slewe him.
2 Samuel 18:16	Then Ioab blewe the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing after Israel: for Ioab helde backe the people.
2 Samuel 18:17	And they tooke Absalom, and cast him into a great pit in the wood, and layed a mightie great heape of stones vpon him: and all Israel fled euery one to his tent.
2 Samuel 18:18	Nowe Absalom in his life time had taken and reared him vp a pillar, which is in the kings dale: for he saide, I haue no sonne to keepe my name in remembrance. and he called the pillar after his owne name, and it is called vnto this day, Absaloms place.
2 Samuel 18:19	Then said Ahimaaz the sonne of Zadok, I pray thee, let me runne, and beare the King tidings that the Lord hath deliuered him out of the hande of his enemies.
2 Samuel 18:20	And Ioab said vnto him, Thou shalt not be the messenger to day, but thou shalt beare tidings another time, but to day thou shalt beare none: for the Kings sonne is dead.
2 Samuel 18:21	Then said Ioab to Cushi, Goe, tel the king, what thou hast seene. And Cushi bowed himselfe vnto Ioab, and ran.
2 Samuel 18:22	Then saide Ahimaaz the sonne of Zadok againe to Ioab, What, I pray thee, if I also runne after Cushi? And Ioab said, Wherefore now wilt thou runne, my sonne, seeing that thou hast no tidings to bring?
2 Samuel 18:23	Yet what if I runne? Then he saide vnto him, Runne. So Ahimaaz ranne by the way of the plaine, and ouerwent Cushi.
2 Samuel 18:24	Now Dauid sate betweene the two gates. And the watchman went to the top of the gate vpon the wall, and lift vp his eyes, and sawe, and beholde, a man came running alone.
2 Samuel 18:25	And the watchman cryed, and tolde ye king. And the King said, If he be alone, he bringeth tidings. And he came apace, and drew neere.
2 Samuel 18:26	And the watchman saw another man running, and the watchman called vnto the porter, and said, Behold, another man runneth alone. And the King said, He also bringeth tidings.
2 Samuel 18:27	And the watchman said, Me thinketh the running of the formost is like the running of Ahimaaz the sonne of Zadok. Then the King said, He is a good man, and commeth with good tidings.
2 Samuel 18:28	And Ahimaaz called, and sayde vnto the King, Peace be with thee: and he fell downe to the earth vpon his face before the King, and saide, Blessed be the Lord thy God, who hath shut vp the men that lift vp their handes against my lorde the King.
2 Samuel 18:29	And the King saide, Is the yong man Absalom safe? And Ahimaaz answered, When Ioab sent the Kings seruant, and me thy seruant, I sawe a great tumult, but I knewe not what.
2 Samuel 18:30	And the King said vnto him, Turne aside, and stand here. so he turned aside and stoode still.
2 Samuel 18:31	And beholde, Cushi came, and Cushi saide, Tidings, my lorde the King: for the Lord hath deliuered thee this day out of the hande of all that rose against thee.
2 Samuel 18:32	Then the King saide vnto Cushi, Is the yong man Absalom safe? And Cushi answered, The enemies of my lorde the King, and all that rise against thee to doe thee hurt, be as that yong man is.
2 Samuel 18:33	And the King was mooued, and went vp to the chamber ouer the gate, and wept: and as he went, thus he said, O my sonne Absalom, my sonne, my sonne Absalom: woulde God I had dyed for thee, O Absalom, my sonne, my sonne.
2 Samuel 19:1	And it was tolde Ioab, Behold, the King weepeth and mourneth for Absalom.
2 Samuel 19:2	Therefore the victorie of that day was turned into mourning to all the people: for the people heard say that day, The King soroweth for his sonne.
2 Samuel 19:3	And the people went that day into the citie secretly, as people confounded hide them selues when they flee in battell.
2 Samuel 19:4	So the King hid his face, and the King cryed with a loude voyce, My sonne Absalom, Absalom my sonne, my sonne.
2 Samuel 19:5	Then Ioab came into the house to the King, and said, Thou hast shamed this day the faces of all thy seruants, which this day haue saued thy life and the liues of thy sones, and of thy daughters, and the liues of thy wiues, and the liues of thy concubines,
2 Samuel 19:6	In that thou louest thine enemies, and hatest thy friendes: for thou hast declared this day, that thou regardest neither thy princes nor seruants: therefore this day I perceiue, that if Absalom had liued, and we all had dyed this day, that then it would haue pleased thee well.
2 Samuel 19:7	Nowe therefore vp, come out, and speake comfortably vnto thy seruants: for I sweare by the Lord, except thou come out, there will not tarie one man with thee this night: and that wil be worse vnto thee, then all the euill that fell on thee from thy youth hitherto.
2 Samuel 19:8	Then the King arose, and sate in the gate: and they tolde vnto all the people, saying, Beholde, the King doeth sit in the gate: and all the people came before the King: for Israel had fled euery man to his tent.
2 Samuel 19:9	Then all the people were at strife thorowout all the tribes of Israel, saying, The King saued vs out of the hand of our enemies, and he deliuered vs out of the hande of the Philistims, and nowe he is fled out of the lande for Absalom.
2 Samuel 19:10	And Absalom, whome we anoynted ouer vs, is dead in battel: therefore why are ye so slow to bring the King againe?
2 Samuel 19:11	But King Dauid sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the Priestes, saying, Speake vnto the Elders of Iudah, and say, Why are ye behind to bring the King againe to his house, (for the saying of al Israel is come vnto the king, euen to his house)
2 Samuel 19:12	Ye are my brethren: my bones and my flesh are ye: wherefore then are ye the last that bring the King againe?
2 Samuel 19:13	Also say ye to Amasa, Art thou not my bone and my flesh? God do so to me and more also, if thou be not captaine of the hoste to me for euer in the roume of Ioab.
2 Samuel 19:14	So he bowed the heartes of all the men of Iudah, as of one man: therefore they sent to the King, saying, Returne thou with all thy seruants.
2 Samuel 19:15	So the King returned, and came to Iorden. And Iudah came to Gilgal, for to goe to meete the King, and to conduct him ouer Iorde.
2 Samuel 19:16	And Shimei the sonne of Gera, ye sonne of Iemini, which was of Bahurim, hasted and came down with the men of Iudah to meete king Dauid,
2 Samuel 19:17	And a thousande men of Beniamin with him, and Ziba the seruant of the house of Saul, and his fifteene sonnes and twentie seruants with him: and they went ouer Iorden before ye king.
2 Samuel 19:18	And there went ouer a boate to carie ouer the Kings houshold, and to do him pleasure. Then Shimei the sonne of Gera fell before the King, when he was come ouer Iorden,
2 Samuel 19:19	And saide vnto the King, Let not my lorde impute wickednesse vnto me, nor remember ye thing that thy seruant did wickedly when my lorde the King departed out of Ierusalem, that the King should take it to his heart.
2 Samuel 19:20	For thy seruant doeth knowe, that I haue done amisse: therefore beholde, I am the first this day of al the house of Ioseph, that am come to goe downe to meete my lord the King.
2 Samuel 19:21	But Abishai the sonne of Zeruiah answered, and said, Shal not Shimei die for this, because he cursed the Lordes anoynted?
2 Samuel 19:22	And Dauid saide, What haue I to do with you, ye sonnes of Zeruiah, that this day ye should be aduersaries vnto me? shall there any man die this day in Israel? for doe not I know that I am this day King ouer Israel?
2 Samuel 19:23	Therefore the King saide vnto Shimei, Thou shalt not die, and the king sware vnto him.
2 Samuel 19:24	And Mephibosheth the sonne of Saul came downe to meete the king, and had neither washed his feete, nor dressed his beard, nor washed his clothes from the time the king departed, vntill he returned in peace.
2 Samuel 19:25	And when he was come to Ierusalem, and met the king, the king said vnto him, Wherefore wentest not thou with me, Mephibosheth?
2 Samuel 19:26	And he answered, My lorde the king, my seruant deceiued me: for thy seruant said, I would haue mine asse sadled to ride thereon, for to goe with the king, because thy seruant is lame.
2 Samuel 19:27	And he hath accused thy seruant vnto my lorde the king: but my lorde the king is as an Angel of God: doe therefore thy pleasure.
2 Samuel 19:28	For all my fathers house were but dead men before my lord the king, yet diddest thou set thy seruant among them that did eate at thine owne table: what right therefore haue I yet to crye any more vnto the king?
2 Samuel 19:29	And the king said vnto him, Why speakest thou any more of thy matters? I haue said, Thou, and Ziba deuide the landes.
2 Samuel 19:30	And Mephibosheth saide vnto the king, Yea, let him take all, seeing my lorde the king is come home in peace.
2 Samuel 19:31	Then Barzillai the Gileadite came downe from Rogelim, and went ouer Iorden with the king, to conduct him ouer Iorden.
2 Samuel 19:32	Nowe Barzillai was a very aged man, euen fourescore yeere olde, and he had prouided the king of sustenance, while he lay at Mahanaim: for he was a man of very great substance.
2 Samuel 19:33	And the king said vnto Barzillai, Come ouer with me, and I will feede thee with me in Ierusalem.
2 Samuel 19:34	And Barzillai said vnto the king, Howe long haue I to liue, that I should goe vp with the king to Ierusalem?
2 Samuel 19:35	I am this day fourescore yeere olde: and can I discerne betweene good or euill? Hath thy seruant any taste in that I eat or in that I drinke? Can I heare any more the voyce of singing men and women? wherefore then should thy seruant be anymore a burthen vnto my lord the king?
2 Samuel 19:36	Thy seruant will goe a litle way ouer Iorden with the King, and why wil the king recompence it me with such a rewarde?
2 Samuel 19:37	I pray thee, let thy seruant turne backe againe, that I may die in mine owne citie, and be buryed in the graue of my father and of my mother: but beholde thy seruant Chimham, let him goe with my lorde the king, and doe to him what shall please thee.
2 Samuel 19:38	And the king answered, Chimham shall go with me, and I will do to him that thou shalt be content with: and whatsoeuer thou shalt require of me, that will I do for thee.
2 Samuel 19:39	So all the people went ouer Iorden: and the King passed ouer: and the King kissed Barzillai, and blessed him, and hee returned vnto his owne place.
2 Samuel 19:40	Then the King went to Gilgal, and Chimham went with him, and all the people of Iudah conducted the King, and also halfe ye people of Israel.
2 Samuel 19:41	And behold, all the men of Israel came to the King, and sayd vnto the King, Why haue our brethren the men of Iudah stollen thee away, and haue brought the King and his houshold, and all Dauids men with him ouer Iorden?
2 Samuel 19:42	And all the men of Iudah answered the men of Israel, Because the King is neere of kin to vs: and wherefore now be ye angry for this matter? haue we eaten of the Kings cost, or haue wee taken any bribes?
2 Samuel 19:43	And the men of Israel answered the men of Iudah, and saide, Wee haue ten partes in the King, and haue also more right to Dauid then ye: Why then did ye despise vs, that our aduise should not bee first had in restoring our King? And the wordes of the men of Iudah were fiercer then the wordes of the men of Israel.
2 Samuel 20:1	Then there was come thither a wicked man (named Sheba the sonne of Bichri, a man of Iemini) and hee blew the trumpet, and saide, Wee haue no part in Dauid, neither haue we inheritance in the sonne of Ishai: euery man to his tents, O Israel.
2 Samuel 20:2	So euery man of Israel went from Dauid and followed Sheba the sonne of Bichri: but the men of Iudah claue fast vnto their King, from Iorden euen to Ierusalem.
2 Samuel 20:3	When Dauid then came to his house to Ierusalem, the King tooke the ten women his concubines, that hee had left behinde him to keepe the house, and put them in warde, and fed them, but lay no more with them: but they were enclosed vnto the day of their death, liuing in widowhode.
2 Samuel 20:4	Then sayde the King to Amasa, Assemble me the men of Iudah within three dayes, and be thou here present.
2 Samuel 20:5	So Amasa went to assemble Iudah, but hee taried longer then the time which he had appoynted him.
2 Samuel 20:6	Then Dauid sayd to Abishai, Now shall Sheba the sonne of Bichri doe vs more harme then did Absalom: take thou therefore thy lords seruants and follow after him, lest he get him walled cities, and escape vs.
2 Samuel 20:7	And there went out after him Ioabs men, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and all the mightie men: and they departed out of Ierusalem, to follow after Sheba the sonne of Bichri.
2 Samuel 20:8	When they were at the great stone, which is in Gibeon, Amasa went before them, and Ioabs garment, that hee had put on, was girded vnto him, and vpon it was a sword girded, which hanged on his loynes in the sheath, and as hee went, it vsed to fall out.
2 Samuel 20:9	And Ioab sayde to Amasa, Art thou in health, my brother? and Ioab tooke Amasa by the beard with the right hand to kisse him.
2 Samuel 20:10	But Amasa tooke no heede to the sworde that was in Ioabs hande: for therewith he smote him in the fift rib, and shed out his bowels to the ground, and smote him not the second time: so he dyed. then Ioab and Abishai his brother followed after Sheba the sonne of Bichri.
2 Samuel 20:11	And one of Ioabs men stoode by him, and saide, He that fauoureth Ioab, and hee that is of Dauids part, let him go after Ioab.
2 Samuel 20:12	And Amasa wallowed in blood in the mids of the way: and when the man sawe that all the people stood still, he remooued Amasa out of the way into the fielde, and cast a cloth vpon him, because he saw that euery one that came by him, stoode still.
2 Samuel 20:13	When hee was remoued out of the way, euerie man went after Ioab, to follow after Sheba the sonne of Bichri.
2 Samuel 20:14	And he went through all the tribes of Israel vnto Abel, and Bethmaachah and all places of Berim: and they gathered together, and went also after him.
2 Samuel 20:15	So they came, and besieged him in Abel, neere to Bethmaachah: and they cast vp a mount against the citie, and the people thereof stood on the ramper, and al the people that was with Ioab, destroyed and cast downe the wall.
2 Samuel 20:16	Then cried a wise woman out of the citie, Heare, heare, I pray you, say vnto Ioab, Come thou hither, that I may speake with thee.
2 Samuel 20:17	And when hee came neere vnto her, the woman said, Art thou Ioab? And he answered, Yea. And she said to him, Heare the wordes of thine handmaid. And he answered, I do heare.
2 Samuel 20:18	Then shee spake thus, They spake in the olde time, saying, They shoulde aske of Abel. and so haue they continued.
2 Samuel 20:19	I am one of them, that are peaceable and faithful in Israel: and thou goest about to destroy a citie, and a mother in Israel: why wilt thou deuoure the inheritance of the Lord?
2 Samuel 20:20	And Ioab answered, and said, God forbid, God forbid it me, that I should deuoure, or destroy it.
2 Samuel 20:21	The matter is not so, but a man of mout Ephraim (Sheba ye sonne of Bichri by name) hath lift vp his had against ye King, euen against Dauid: deliuer vs him onely, and I will depart from the citie. And the woman saide vnto Ioab, Beholde, his head shalbe throwen to thee ouer the wall.
2 Samuel 20:22	Then the woman went vnto all the people with her wisedome, and they cut off the head of Sheba the sonne of Bichri, and cast it to Ioab: the he blewe the trumpet, and they retired from the citie, euery man to his tent: and Ioab returned to Ierusalem vnto the King.
2 Samuel 20:23	Then Ioab was ouer all the hoste of Israel, and Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada ouer the Cherethites and ouer the Pelethies,
2 Samuel 20:24	And Adoram ouer the tribute, and Ioshaphat the sonne of Ahilud the recorder,
2 Samuel 20:25	And Sheia was Scribe, and Zadok and Abiathar the Priests,
2 Samuel 20:26	And also Ira the Iairite was chiefe about Dauid.
2 Samuel 21:1	Then there was a famine in the dayes of Dauid, three yeeres together: and Dauid asked counsell of the Lord, and the Lord answered, It is for Saul, and for his bloodie house, because hee slewe the Gibeonites.
2 Samuel 21:2	Then ye King called the Gibeonites and said vnto them. (Now the Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but a remnant of the Amorites, vnto whom ye children of Israel had sworne: but Saul sought to slay them for his zeale toward the children of Israel and Iudah)
2 Samuel 21:3	And Dauid said vnto the Gibeonites, What shall I doe for you, and wherewith shall I make the atonement, that ye may blesse the inheritance of the Lord?
2 Samuel 21:4	The Gibeonites then answered him, Wee will haue no siluer nor golde of Saul nor of his house, neither for vs shalt thou kill any man in Israel. And he said, What ye shall say, that will I doe for you.
2 Samuel 21:5	Then they answered the King, The man that consumed vs and that imagined euill against vs, so that we are destroyed from remaining in any coast of Israel,
2 Samuel 21:6	Let seuen men of his sonnes be deliuered vnto vs, and we will hang them vp vnto the Lord in Gibeah of Saul, the Lordes chosen. And the King said, I will giue them.
2 Samuel 21:7	But the King had compassion on Mephibosheth the sonne of Ionathan the sonne of Saul, because of the Lordes othe, that was betweene them, euen betweene Dauid and Ionathan the sonne of Saul.
2 Samuel 21:8	But the King tooke the two sonnes of Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, whome shee bare vnto Saul, euen Armoni and Mephibosheth and the fiue sonnes of Michal, the daughter of Saul, whome shee bare to Adriel the sonne of Barzillai the Meholathite.
2 Samuel 21:9	And hee deliuered them vnto the handes of the Gibeonites, which hanged them in the mountaine before the Lord: so they died all seuen together, and they were slaine in the time of haruest: in the first dayes, and in the beginning of barly haruest.
2 Samuel 21:10	Then Rizpah the daughter of Aiah tooke sackecloth and hanged it vp for her vpon the rocke, from the beginning of haruest, vntill water dropped vpon them from the heauen, and suffered neither the birdes of the aire to light on the by day, nor beasts of the fielde by night.
2 Samuel 21:11	And it was told Dauid, what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah ye concubine of Saul had done.
2 Samuel 21:12	And Dauid went and tooke the bones of Saul and the bones of Ionathan his sonne from the citizens of Iabesh Gilead, which had stollen them from the streete of Beth-shan, where the Philistims had hanged them, when the Philistims had slaine Saul in Gilboa.
2 Samuel 21:13	So hee brought thence the bones of Saul and the bones of Ionathan his sonne, and they gathered the bones of them that were hanged.
2 Samuel 21:14	And the bones of Saul and of Ionathan his sonne buried they in the coutrey of Beniamin in Zelah, in the graue of Kish his father: and when they had perfourmed all that the King had commanded, God was then appeased with the land.
2 Samuel 21:15	Againe the Philistims had warre with Israel: and Dauid went downe, and his seruants with him, and they fought against the Philistims, and Dauid fainted.
2 Samuel 21:16	Then Ishi-benob which was of the sonnes of Haraphah (the head of whose speare wayed three hundreth shekels of brasse) euen he being girded with a newe sword, thought to haue slaine Dauid.
2 Samuel 21:17	But Abishai the sonne of Zeruiah succoured him, and smote the Philistim, and killed him. Then Dauids men sware vnto him, saying, Thou shalt goe no more out with vs to battell, lest thou quench the light of Israel.
2 Samuel 21:18	And after this also there was a battell with the Philistims at Gob, then Sibbechai the Hushathite slewe Saph, which was one of ye sonnes of Haraphah.
2 Samuel 21:19	And there was yet another battel in Gob with the Philistims, where Elhanah the sonne of Iaare-oregim, a Bethlehemite slewe Goliath the Gittite: the staffe of whose speare was like a weauers beame.
2 Samuel 21:20	Afterward there was also a battel in Gath, where was a man of a great stature, and had on euerie hand sixe fingers, and on euerie foote sixe toes, foure and twentie in nomber: who was also the sonne of Haraphah.
2 Samuel 21:21	And when hee reuiled Israel, Ionathan the sonne of Shima the brother of Dauid slewe him.
2 Samuel 21:22	These foure were borne to Haraphah in Gath, and died by the hande of Dauid and by the hands of his seruants.
2 Samuel 22:1	And Dauid spake the woordes of this song vnto the Lord, what time the Lord had deliuered him out of the handes of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul.
2 Samuel 22:2	And he sayd, The Lord is my rocke and my fortresse, and he that deliuereth mee.
2 Samuel 22:3	God is my strength, in him will I trust: my shielde, and the horne of my saluation, my hie tower and my refuge: my Sauiour, thou hast saued me from violence.
2 Samuel 22:4	I will call on the Lord, who is worthy to be praysed: so shall I be safe from mine enemies.
2 Samuel 22:5	For the pangs of death haue compassed me: the floods of vngodlinesse haue made mee afrayd.
2 Samuel 22:6	The sorowes of the graue compassed mee about: the snares of death ouertooke mee.
2 Samuel 22:7	But in my tribulation did I call vpon the Lord, and crie to my God, and he did heare my voyce out of his temple, and my crie did enter into his eares.
2 Samuel 22:8	Then the earth trembled and quaked: the foundations of the heauens mooued and shooke, because he was angrie.
2 Samuel 22:9	Smoke went out at his nostrels, and consuming fire out of his mouth: coles were kindled thereat.
2 Samuel 22:10	He bowed the heauens also, and came downe, and darkenes was vnder his feete.
2 Samuel 22:11	And he rode vpon Cherub and did flie, and hee was seene vpon the winges of the winde.
2 Samuel 22:12	And hee made darkenesse a Tabernacle round about him, euen the gatherings of waters, and the cloudes of the ayre.
2 Samuel 22:13	At the brightnesse of his presence the coles of fire were kindled.
2 Samuel 22:14	The Lord thundred from heauen, and the most hie gaue his voyce.
2 Samuel 22:15	He shot arrowes also, and scattered them: to wit, lightning, and destroyed them.
2 Samuel 22:16	The chanels also of the sea appeared, euen the foundations of the worlde were discouered by the rebuking of the Lord, and at the blast of the breath of his nostrels.
2 Samuel 22:17	He sent from aboue, and tooke me: hee drewe me out of many waters.
2 Samuel 22:18	He deliuered me from my strong enemie, and from them that hated me: for they were too strong for me.
2 Samuel 22:19	They preuented me in the day of my calamitie, but the Lord was my stay,
2 Samuel 22:20	And brought me foorth into a large place: he deliuered me, because he fauoured me.
2 Samuel 22:21	The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousnesse: according to the purenesse of mine handes he recompensed me.
2 Samuel 22:22	For I kept the wayes of the Lord, and did not wickedly against my God.
2 Samuel 22:23	For all his lawes were before me, and his statutes: I did not depart therefrom.
2 Samuel 22:24	I was vpright also towarde him, and haue kept me from my wickednesse.
2 Samuel 22:25	Therefore the Lord did reward me according to my righteousnesse, according to my purenesse before his eyes.
2 Samuel 22:26	With the godly thou wilt shewe thy selfe godly: with the vpright man thou wilt shew thy selfe vpright.
2 Samuel 22:27	With the pure thou wilt shewe thy selfe pure, and with the frowarde thou wilt shew thy selfe frowarde.
2 Samuel 22:28	Thus thou wilt saue the poore people: but thine eyes are vpon the hautie to humble them.
2 Samuel 22:29	Surely thou art my light, O Lord: and the Lord will lighten my darkenes.
2 Samuel 22:30	For by thee haue I broken through an hoste, and by my God haue I leaped ouer a wall.
2 Samuel 22:31	The way of God is vncorrupt: the word of the Lord is tryed in the fire: he is a shield to all that trust in him.
2 Samuel 22:32	For who is God besides the Lord? and who is mightie, saue our God?
2 Samuel 22:33	God is my strength in battel, and maketh my way vpright.
2 Samuel 22:34	He maketh my feete like hindes feete, and hath set me vpon mine hie places.
2 Samuel 22:35	He teacheth mine handes to fight, so that a bowe of brasse is broken with mine armes.
2 Samuel 22:36	Thou hast also giuen me the shield of thy saluation, and thy louing kindnesse hath caused me to increase.
2 Samuel 22:37	Thou hast inlarged my steppes vnder me, and mine heeles haue not slid.
2 Samuel 22:38	I haue pursued mine enemies and destroyed them, and haue not turned againe vntill I had consumed them.
2 Samuel 22:39	Yea, I haue consumed them and thrust them through, and they shall not arise, but shall fall vnder my feete.
2 Samuel 22:40	For thou hast girded me with power to battell, and them that arose against me, hast thou subdued vnder me.
2 Samuel 22:41	And thou hast giuen me the neckes of mine enemies, that I might destroy them that hate me.
2 Samuel 22:42	They looked about, but there was none to saue them, euen vnto the Lord, but he answered them not.
2 Samuel 22:43	Then did I beate them as small as the dust of the earth: I did treade them flat as the clay of the streete, and did spread them abroad.
2 Samuel 22:44	Thou hast also deliuered me from the contentions of my people: thou hast preserued me to be the head ouer nations: the people which I knewe not, doe serue me.
2 Samuel 22:45	Strangers shalbe in subiection to me: assoone as they heare, they shall obey me.
2 Samuel 22:46	Strangers shall shrinke away, and feare in their priuie chambers.
2 Samuel 22:47	Let the Lord liue, and blessed be my strength: and God, euen the force of my saluation be exalted.
2 Samuel 22:48	It is God that giueth me power to reuenge me, and subdue the people vnder me,
2 Samuel 22:49	And rescueth me from mine enemies: (thou also hast lift me vp from them that rose against me, thou hast deliuered me from the cruell man.
2 Samuel 22:50	Therefore I will praise thee, O Lord amog the nations, and will sing vnto thy Name)
2 Samuel 22:51	He is the tower of saluation for his King, and sheweth mercie to his anointed, euen to Dauid, and to his seede for euer.
2 Samuel 23:1	These also be the last wordes of Dauid, Dauid the sonne of Ishai saith, euen the man who was set vp on hie, the Anointed of the God of Iacob, and the sweete singer of Israel saith,
2 Samuel 23:2	The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, and his worde was in my tongue.
2 Samuel 23:3	The God of Israel spake to me, ye strength of Israel saide, Thou shalt beare rule ouer men, being iust, and ruling in the feare of God.
2 Samuel 23:4	Euen as the morning light when the sunne riseth, the morning, I say, without cloudes, so shall mine house be, and not as the grasse of the earth is by the bright raine.
2 Samuel 23:5	For so shall not mine house be with God: for he hath made with me an euerlasting couenant, perfite in all pointes, and sure: therefore all mine health and whole desire is, that he will not make it growe so.
2 Samuel 23:6	But the wicked shalbe euery one as thornes thrust away, because they can not be taken with handes.
2 Samuel 23:7	But the man that shall touch them, must be defensed with yron, or with the shaft of a speare: and they shall be burnt with fire in the same place.
2 Samuel 23:8	These be the names of the mightie men whome Dauid had. He that sate in the seate of wisedome, being chiefe of the princes, was Adino of Ezni, he slewe eight hundreth at one time.
2 Samuel 23:9	And after him was Eleazar the sonne of Dodo, the sonne of Ahohi, one of the three worthies with Dauid, when they defied the Philistims gathered there to battel, when the men of Israel were gone vp.
2 Samuel 23:10	He arose and smote the Philistims vntill his hande was wearie, and his hande claue vnto the sworde: and the Lord gaue great victorie the same day, and the people returned after him onely to spoyle.
2 Samuel 23:11	After him was Shammah the sonne of Age the Hararite: for the Philistims assembled at a towne, where was a piece of a fielde full of lentils, and the people fled from the Philistims.
2 Samuel 23:12	But he stoode in the middes of the fielde, and defended it, and slewe the Philistims: so the Lord gaue great victorie.
2 Samuel 23:13	Afterward three of the thirtie captaines went downe, and came to Dauid in the haruest time vnto the caue of Adullam, and the hoste of the Philistims pitched in the valley of Rephaim.
2 Samuel 23:14	And Dauid was then in an holde, and the garison of ye Philistims was then in Beth-lehem.
2 Samuel 23:15	And Dauid longed, and said, Oh, that one would giue me to drinke of the water of the well of Beth-lehem, which is by the gate.
2 Samuel 23:16	The the three mightie brake into the host of the Philistims, and drew water out of the well of Beth-lehem that was by the gate, and tooke and brought it to Dauid, who woulde not drinke thereof, but powred it for an offring vnto ye Lord,
2 Samuel 23:17	And said, O Lord, be it farre from me, that I should doe this. Is not this the blood of the men that went in ieopardie of their liues? therefore he woulde not drinke it. These things did these three mightie men.
2 Samuel 23:18	And Abishai the brother of Ioab, the sonne of Zeruiah, was chiefe among the three, and he lifted vp his speare against three hundreth, and slewe them, and he had the name among the three.
2 Samuel 23:19	For he was most excellent of the three, and was their captaine, but he attained not vnto the first three.
2 Samuel 23:20	And Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada the sonne of a valiant man, which had done many actes, and was of Kabzeel, slewe two strong men of Moab: he went downe also, and slewe a lyon in the middes of a pit in the time of snowe.
2 Samuel 23:21	And he slewe an Egyptian a man of great stature, and the Egyptian had a speare in his hande: but he went downe to him with a staffe, and plucked the speare out of the Egyptians hand, and slewe him with his owne speare.
2 Samuel 23:22	These things did Benaiah the sonne of Iehoiada, and had the name among the three worthies.
2 Samuel 23:23	He was honourable among thirtie, but he atteined not to the first three: and Dauid made him of his counsell.
2 Samuel 23:24	Asahel the brother of Ioab was one of the thirtie: Elhanan the sonne of Dodo of Beth-lehem:
2 Samuel 23:25	Shammah the Harodite: Elika ye Harodite:
2 Samuel 23:26	Helez the Paltite: Ira the sonne of Ikkesh the Tekoite:
2 Samuel 23:27	Abiezer the Anethothite: Mebunnai the Husathite:
2 Samuel 23:28	Zalmon an Ahohite: Maharai the Netophathite:
2 Samuel 23:29	Heleb the sonne of Baanah a Netophathite: Ittai the sonne of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Beniamin:
2 Samuel 23:30	Benaiah the Pirathonite: Hiddai of the riuer of Gaash:
2 Samuel 23:31	Abi-albon the Arbathite: Azmaueth the Barhumite:
2 Samuel 23:32	Elihaba the Shaalbonite: of the sonnes of Iashen, Ionathan:
2 Samuel 23:33	Shammah the Hararite: Ahiam the sonne of Sharar the Hamrite:
2 Samuel 23:34	Eliphelet the sonne of Ahasbai the sonne of Maachathi: Eliam the sonne of Ahithophel the Gilonite:
2 Samuel 23:35	Hezrai the Carmelite: Paarai the Arbite:
2 Samuel 23:36	Igal the sonne of Nathan of Zobah: Bani the Gadite:
2 Samuel 23:37	Zelek the Ammonite: Naharai the Becrothite, the armour bearer of Ioab the sonne of Zeruiah:
2 Samuel 23:38	Ira the Ithrite: Gareb the Ithrite:
2 Samuel 23:39	Uriiah the Hittite, thirtie and seuen in all.
2 Samuel 24:1	And the wrath of the Lord was againe kindled against Israel, and he moued Dauid against them, in that he saide, Goe, number Israel and Iudah.
2 Samuel 24:2	For the King said to Ioab the captaine of the hoste, which was with him, Goe speedily now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan euen to Beer-sheba, and nomber ye the people, that I may knowe the nomber of the people.
2 Samuel 24:3	And Ioab saide vnto the King, The Lord thy God increase the people an hundreth folde more then they be, and that the eyes of my lorde the King may see it: but why doeth my lord the King desire this thing?
2 Samuel 24:4	Notwithstanding the Kings worde preuailed against Ioab and against the captaines of the hoste: therefore Ioab and the captaines of the hoste went out from the presence of the King to nomber the people of Israel.
2 Samuel 24:5	And they passed ouer Iorden, and pitched in Aroer at the right side of the citie that is in the middes of the valley of Gad and toward Iazer.
2 Samuel 24:6	Then they came to Gilead, and to Tahtim-hodshi, so they came to Dan Iaan, and so about to Zidon,
2 Samuel 24:7	And came to the fortresse of Tyrus and to all the cities of the Hiuites and of the Canaanites, and went towarde the South of Iudah, euen to Beer-sheba.
2 Samuel 24:8	So when they had gone about all the lande, they returned to Ierusalem at the ende of nine moneths and twentie dayes.
2 Samuel 24:9	And Ioab deliuered the nomber and summe of the people vnto the King: and there were in Israel eight hundreth thousande strong men that drewe swordes, and the men of Iudah were fiue hundreth thousand men.
2 Samuel 24:10	Then Dauids heart smote him, after that he had numbred the people: and Dauid said vnto the Lord, I haue sinned exceedingly in that I haue done: therefore nowe, Lord, I beseech thee, take away the trespasse of thy seruant: for I haue done very foolishly.
2 Samuel 24:11	And when Dauid was vp in the morning, the worde of the Lord came vnto the Prophet Gad Dauids Seer, saying,
2 Samuel 24:12	Go, and say vnto Dauid, Thus saith ye Lord, I offer thee three thinges, chuse thee which of them I shall doe vnto thee.
2 Samuel 24:13	So Gad came to Dauid, and shewed him, and said vnto him, Wilt thou that seuen yeeres famine come vpon thee in thy lande, or wilt thou flee three moneths before thine enemies, they following thee, or that there bee three dayes pestilence in thy land? nowe aduise thee, and see, what answere I shall giue to him that sent me.
2 Samuel 24:14	And Dauid said vnto Gad, I am in a wonderfull strait: let vs fall nowe into the hand of the Lord, (for his mercies are great) and let mee not fall into the hand of man.
2 Samuel 24:15	So the Lord sent a pestilece in Israel, from the morning euen to the time appointed: and there dyed of the people from Dan euen to Beer-sheba seuentie thousand men.
2 Samuel 24:16	And when the Angel stretched out his hande vpon Ierusalem to destroy it, the Lord repented of the euil, and said to the Angel that destroyed the people, It is sufficient, holde nowe thine hand. And the Angel of the Lord was by the threshing place of Araunah the Iebusite.
2 Samuel 24:17	And Dauid spake vnto the Lord (when he sawe the Angel that smote the people) and saide, Behold, I haue sinned, yea, I haue done wickedly: but these sheepe, what haue they done? let thine hand, I pray thee, be against mee and against my fathers house.
2 Samuel 24:18	So Gad came the same day to Dauid, and said vnto him, Go vp, reare an altar vnto the Lord in the threshing floore of Araunah the Iebusite.
2 Samuel 24:19	And Dauid (according to the saying of Gad) went vp, as the Lord had commanded.
2 Samuel 24:20	And Araunah looked, and sawe the King and his seruants comming towarde him, and Araunah went out, and bowed himselfe before the King on his face to the ground,
2 Samuel 24:21	And Araunah said, Wherefore is my lord the King come to his seruant? Then Dauid answered, To bye the threshing floore of thee for to builde an altar vnto the Lord, that the plague may cease from the people.
2 Samuel 24:22	Then Araunah saide vnto Dauid, Let my lord the King take and offer what seemeth him good in his eyes: beholde the oxen for the burnt offring, and charets, and the instruments of the oxen for wood.
2 Samuel 24:23	(All these things did Araunah as a King giue vnto the King: and Araunah saide vnto the King, The Lord thy God be fauourable vnto thee)
2 Samuel 24:24	Then the King saide vnto Araunah, Not so, but I will bye it of thee at a price, and will not offer burnt offring vnto ye Lord my God of that which doeth cost me nothing. So Dauid bought the threshing floore, and the oxen for fiftie shekels of siluer.
2 Samuel 24:25	And Dauid built there an altar vnto the Lord, and offred burnt offrings and peace offrings, and the Lord was appeased toward ye lande, and the plague ceased from Israel.

===== BOOK: 2 Thessalonians =====
2 Thessalonians 1:1	Paul and Siluanus, and Timotheus, vnto the Church of the Thessalonians, which is in God our Father, and in the Lord Iesus Christ:
2 Thessalonians 1:2	Grace be with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 1:3	We ought to thanke God alwayes for you, brethren, as it is meete, because that your faith groweth exceedingly, and the loue of euery one of you toward another, aboundeth,
2 Thessalonians 1:4	So that we our selues reioyce of you in the Churches of God, because of your patience and faith in al your persecutions and tribulatios that ye suffer,
2 Thessalonians 1:5	Which is a manifest token of the righteous iudgement of God, that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdome of God, for the which ye also suffer.
2 Thessalonians 1:6	For it is a righteous thing with God, to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you,
2 Thessalonians 1:7	And to you which are troubled, rest with vs, when the Lord Iesus shall shewe himselfe from heauen with his mightie Angels,
2 Thessalonians 1:8	In flaming fire, rendring vengeance vnto them, that doe not know God, and which obey not vnto the Gospel of our Lord Iesus Christ,
2 Thessalonians 1:9	Which shall be punished with euerlasting perdition, from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power,
2 Thessalonians 1:10	When he shall come to be glorified in his Saints, and to be made marueilous in all them that beleeue (because our testimonie toward you was beleeued) in that day.
2 Thessalonians 1:11	Wherefore, we also pray alwayes for you, that our God may make you worthy of this calling, and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodnes, and the worke of faith with power,
2 Thessalonians 1:12	That the Name of our Lord Iesus Christ may be glorified in you, and ye in him, according to the grace of our God, and of the Lord Iesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 2:1	Now we beseech you, brethren, by the comming of our Lord Iesus Christ, and by our assembling vnto him,
2 Thessalonians 2:2	That ye be not suddenly mooued from your minde, nor troubled neither by spirit, nor by worde, nor by letter, as it were from vs, as though the day of Christ were at hand.
2 Thessalonians 2:3	Let no man deceiue you by any meanes: for that day shall not come, except there come a departing first, and that that man of sinne be disclosed, euen the sonne of perdition,
2 Thessalonians 2:4	Which is an aduersarie, and exalteth him selfe against all that is called God, or that is worshipped: so that he doeth sit as God in the Temple of God, shewing him selfe that he is God.
2 Thessalonians 2:5	Remember ye not, that when I was yet with you, I tolde you these things?
2 Thessalonians 2:6	And nowe ye knowe what withholdeth that he might be reueiled in his time.
2 Thessalonians 2:7	For the mysterie of iniquitie doeth already worke: onely he which nowe withholdeth, shall let till he be taken out of the way.
2 Thessalonians 2:8	And then shall that wicked man be reueiled, whome the Lord shall consume with the Spirit of his mouth, and shall abolish with the brightnes of his comming,
2 Thessalonians 2:9	Euen him whose comming is by the effectuall working of Satan, with all power, and signes, and lying wonders,
2 Thessalonians 2:10	And in al deceiuablenes of vnrighteousnes, among them that perish, because they receiued not the loue of the trueth, that they might be saued.
2 Thessalonians 2:11	And therefore God shall send them strong delusion, that they should beleeue lies,
2 Thessalonians 2:12	That all they might be damned which beleeued not the trueth, but had pleasure in vnrighteousnes.
2 Thessalonians 2:13	But we ought to giue thankes alway to God for you, brethren beloued of the Lord, because that God hath from the beginning chosen you to saluation, through sanctification of the Spirit, and the faith of trueth,
2 Thessalonians 2:14	Whereunto he called you by our Gospel, to obtaine the glory of our Lord Iesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 2:15	Therefore, brethren, stand fast and keepe the instructions, which ye haue bene taught, either by worde, or by our Epistle.
2 Thessalonians 2:16	Now the same Iesus Christ our Lord; and our God euen the Father which hath loued vs, and hath giuen vs euerlasting consolation and good hope through grace,
2 Thessalonians 2:17	Comfort your hearts, and stablish you in euery word and good worke.
2 Thessalonians 3:1	Furthermore, brethren, pray for vs, that the worde of the Lord may haue free passage and be glorified, euen as it is with you,
2 Thessalonians 3:2	And that we may be deliuered from vnreasonable and euill men: for all men haue not fayth.
2 Thessalonians 3:3	But the Lord is faithfull, which wil stablish you, and keepe you from euill.
2 Thessalonians 3:4	And we are perswaded of you through the Lord, that ye both doe, and will doe the things which we warne you of.
2 Thessalonians 3:5	And the Lord guide your hearts to the loue of God, and the waiting for of Christ.
2 Thessalonians 3:6	We warne you, brethren, in the Name of our Lord Iesus Christ, that ye withdrawe your selues from euery brother that walketh inordinately, and not after the instruction, which hee receiued of vs.
2 Thessalonians 3:7	For ye your selues know, how ye ought to follow vs: for we behaued not our selues inordinately among you,
2 Thessalonians 3:8	Neither tooke we bread of any man for nought: but we wrought with labour and trauaile night and day, because we would not be chargeable to any of you.
2 Thessalonians 3:9	Not because we haue not authoritie, but that we might make our selues an ensample vnto you to follow vs.
2 Thessalonians 3:10	For euen when we were with you, this we warned you of, that if there were any, which would not worke, that he should not eate.
2 Thessalonians 3:11	For we heare, that there are some which walke among you inordinately, and worke not at all, but are busie bodies.
2 Thessalonians 3:12	Therefore them that are such, we warne and exhort by our Lord Iesus Christ, that they worke with quietnes, and eate their owne bread.
2 Thessalonians 3:13	And ye, brethren, be not weary in well doing.
2 Thessalonians 3:14	If any man obey not this our saying in this letter, note him, and haue no company with him, that he may be ashamed:
2 Thessalonians 3:15	Yet count him not as an enemie, but admonish him as a brother.
2 Thessalonians 3:16	Now the Lord himselfe of peace giue you peace alwayes by all meanes. The Lord be with you all.
2 Thessalonians 3:17	The salutation of me Paul, with mine owne hand, which is ye token in euery Epistle: so I write,
2 Thessalonians 3:18	The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with you all, Amen. ‘The second Epistle to the Thessalonians, written from Athens.’

===== BOOK: 2 Timothy =====
2 Timothy 1:1	Paul an Apostle of Iesus Christ, by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Iesus,
2 Timothy 1:2	To Timotheus my beloued sonne: Grace, mercie and peace from God the Father, and from Iesus Christ our Lord.
2 Timothy 1:3	I thanke God, whom I serue from mine elders with pure conscience, that without ceasing I haue remembrance of thee in my praiers night and day,
2 Timothy 1:4	Desiring to see thee, mindefull of thy teares, that I may be filled with ioy:
2 Timothy 1:5	When I call to remembrance the vnfained faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice, and am assured that it dwelleth in thee also.
2 Timothy 1:6	Wherefore, I put thee in remembrance that thou stirre vp the gift of God which is in thee, by the putting on of mine hands.
2 Timothy 1:7	For God hath not giuen to vs the Spirite of feare, but of power, and of loue, and of a sound minde.
2 Timothy 1:8	Be not therefore ashamed of the testimonie of our Lord, neither of me his prisoner: but be partaker of the afflictions of the Gospel, according to the power of God,
2 Timothy 1:9	Who hath saued vs, and called vs with an holy calling, not according to our workes, but according to his owne purpose and grace, which was giuen to vs through Christ Iesus before the world was,
2 Timothy 1:10	But is nowe made manifest by that appearing of our Sauiour Iesus Christ, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life and immortalitie vnto light through the Gospel.
2 Timothy 1:11	Whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and Apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles.
2 Timothy 1:12	For the which cause I also suffer these things, but I am not ashamed: for I knowe whom I haue beleeued, and I am persuaded that he is able to keepe that which I haue committed to him against that day.
2 Timothy 1:13	Keepe the true paterne of the wholesome wordes, which thou hast heard of me in faith and loue which is in Christ Iesus.
2 Timothy 1:14	That worthie thing, which was committed to thee, keepe through the holy Ghost, which dwelleth in vs.
2 Timothy 1:15	This thou knowest, that all they which are in Asia, be turned from me: of which sort are Phygellus and Hermogenes.
2 Timothy 1:16	The Lord giue mercie vnto the house of Onesiphorus: for he oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chaine,
2 Timothy 1:17	But when he was at Rome, he sought me out very diligently, and found me.
2 Timothy 1:18	The Lord graunt vnto him, that he may finde mercie with the Lord at that day, and in how many things he hath ministred vnto me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well.
2 Timothy 2:1	Thou therefore, my sonne, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Iesus.
2 Timothy 2:2	And what things thou hast heard of me, by many witnesses, ye same deliuer to faithfull men, which shalbe able to teache other also.
2 Timothy 2:3	Thou therefore suffer affliction as a good souldier of Iesus Christ.
2 Timothy 2:4	No man that warreth, entangleth himselfe with the affaires of this life, because he woulde please him that hath chosen him to be a souldier.
2 Timothy 2:5	And if any man also striue for a Masterie, he is not crowned, except he striue as he ought to doe.
2 Timothy 2:6	The husbandman must labour before he receiue the fruites.
2 Timothy 2:7	Consider what I say: and the Lord giue thee vnderstanding in all things:
2 Timothy 2:8	Remember that Iesus Christ, made of the seede of Dauid, was raysed againe from the dead according to my Gospel,
2 Timothy 2:9	Wherein I suffer trouble as an euill doer, euen vnto bondes: but the worde of God is not bounde.
2 Timothy 2:10	Therefore I suffer all things, for the elects sake, that they might also obtaine the saluation which is in Christ Iesus, with eternall glorie.
2 Timothy 2:11	It is a true saying, For if we be dead together with him, we also shall liue together with him.
2 Timothy 2:12	If we suffer, we shall also reigne together with him: if we denie him, he also will denie vs.
2 Timothy 2:13	If we beleeue not, yet abideth he faithfull: he cannot denie himselfe.
2 Timothy 2:14	Of these things put them in remembrance, and protest before the Lord, that they striue not about wordes, which is to no profit, but to the peruerting of the hearers.
2 Timothy 2:15	Studie to shewe thy selfe approued vnto God, a workeman that needeth not to be ashamed, diuiding the worde of trueth aright.
2 Timothy 2:16	Stay prophane, and vaine babblings: for they shall encrease vnto more vngodlinesse.
2 Timothy 2:17	And their worde shall fret as a canker: of which sort is Hymeneus and Philetus,
2 Timothy 2:18	Which as concerning ye trueth haue erred from the marke, saying that the resurrection is past alreadie, and do destroy the faith of certaine.
2 Timothy 2:19	But the foundation of God remaineth sure, and hath this seale, The Lord knoweth who are his: and, Let euery one that calleth on the Name of Christ, depart from iniquitie.
2 Timothy 2:20	Notwithstanding in a great house are not onely vessels of gold and of siluer, but also of wood and of earth, and some for honour, and some vnto dishonour.
2 Timothy 2:21	If any man therefore purge him selfe from these, he shalbe a vessell vnto honour, sanctified, and meete for the Lord, and prepared vnto euery good worke.
2 Timothy 2:22	Flee also from the lustes of youth, and follow after righteousnes, faith, loue, and peace, with them that call on the Lord with pure heart,
2 Timothy 2:23	And put away foolish and vnlearned questions, knowing that they ingender strife.
2 Timothy 2:24	But the seruant of ye Lord must not striue, but must be gentle toward all men, apt to teache, suffering the euill,
2 Timothy 2:25	Instructing them with meekenesse that are contrary minded, prouing if God at any time will giue them repentance, that they may acknowledge the trueth,
2 Timothy 2:26	And come to amendment out of that snare of the deuil, of whom they are taken prisoners, to doe his will.
2 Timothy 3:1	This knowe also, that in the last dayes shall come perilous times.
2 Timothy 3:2	For men shalbe louers of their owne selues, couetous, boasters, proud, cursed speakers, disobedient to parents, vnthankefull, vnholy,
2 Timothy 3:3	Without naturall affection, truce breakers, false accusers, intemperate, fierce, no louers at all of them which are good,
2 Timothy 3:4	Traitours, headie, high minded, louers of pleasures more then louers of God,
2 Timothy 3:5	Hauing a shewe of godlinesse, but haue denied the power thereof: turne away therefore from such.
2 Timothy 3:6	For of this sort are they which creepe into houses, and leade captiue simple women laden with sinnes, and led with diuers lustes,
2 Timothy 3:7	Which women are euer learning, and are neuer able to come to the acknowledging of the trueth.
2 Timothy 3:8	And as Iannes and Iambres withstoode Moses, so doe these also resist the trueth, men of corrupt mindes, reprobate concerning the faith.
2 Timothy 3:9	But they shall preuaile no longer: for their madnesse shalbe euident vnto all men, as theirs also was.
2 Timothy 3:10	But thou hast fully knowen my doctrine, maner of liuing, purpose, faith, long suffering, loue, patience,
2 Timothy 3:11	Persecutions, and afflictions which came vnto me at Antiochia, at Iconium, and at Lystri, which persecutions I suffered: but from them all the Lord deliuered me.
2 Timothy 3:12	Yea, and all that will liue godly in Christ Iesus, shall suffer persecution.
2 Timothy 3:13	But the euill men and deceiuers, shall waxe worse and worse, deceiuing, and being deceiued.
2 Timothy 3:14	But continue thou in the thinges which thou hast learned, and which are committed vnto thee, knowing of who thou hast learned them:
2 Timothy 3:15	And that thou hast knowen the holy Scriptures of a childe, which are able to make thee wise vnto saluation, through the faith which is in Christ Iesus.
2 Timothy 3:16	For the whole Scripture is giuen by inspiration of God, and is profitable to teache, to conuince, to correct, and to instruct in righteousnesse,
2 Timothy 3:17	That the man of God may be absolute, being made perfect vnto all good workes.
2 Timothy 4:1	I charge thee therefore before God, and before the Lord Iesus Christ, which shall iudge the quicke and dead at that his appearing, and in his kingdome,
2 Timothy 4:2	Preach the worde: be instant, in season and out of season: improue, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine.
2 Timothy 4:3	For the time will come, when they will not suffer wholesome doctrine: but hauing their eares itching, shall after their owne lustes get them an heape of teachers,
2 Timothy 4:4	And shall turne their eares from the trueth, and shalbe giuen vnto fables.
2 Timothy 4:5	But watch thou in all thinges: suffer aduersitie: doe the worke of an Euangelist: cause thy ministerie to be throughly liked of.
2 Timothy 4:6	For I am nowe readie to be offered, and the time of my departing is at hand.
2 Timothy 4:7	I haue fought a good fight, and haue finished my course: I haue kept the faith.
2 Timothy 4:8	For hence foorth is laide vp for me the crowne of righteousnesse, which the Lord the righteous iudge shall giue me at that day: and not to me onely, but vnto all them also that loue that his appearing.
2 Timothy 4:9	Make speede to come vnto me at once:
2 Timothy 4:10	For Demas hath forsaken me, and hath embraced this present world, and is departed vnto Thessalonica. Crescens is gone to Galatia, Titus vnto Dalmatia.
2 Timothy 4:11	Onely Luke is with me. Take Marke and bring him with thee: for he is profitable vnto me to minister.
2 Timothy 4:12	And Tychicus haue I sent to Ephesus.
2 Timothy 4:13	The cloke that I left at Troas with Carpus, when thou commest, bring with thee, and the bookes, but specially the parchments.
2 Timothy 4:14	Alexander the coppersmith hath done me much euill: the Lord rewarde him according to his workes.
2 Timothy 4:15	Of whome be thou ware also: for he withstoode our preaching sore.
2 Timothy 4:16	At my first answering no man assisted me, but all forsooke me: I pray God, that it may not be laide to their charge.
2 Timothy 4:17	Notwithstanding the Lord assisted me, and strengthened me, that by me the preaching might be fully beleeued, and that al the Gentiles should heare: and I was deliuered out of the mouth of the lion.
2 Timothy 4:18	And the Lord will deliuer me from euery euil worke, and will preserue me vnto his heauenly kingdome: to whome be praise for euer and euer, Amen.
2 Timothy 4:19	Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the householde of Onesiphorus.
2 Timothy 4:20	Erastus abode at Corinthus: Trophimus I left at Miletum sicke.
2 Timothy 4:21	Make speede to come before winter. Eubulus greeteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren.
2 Timothy 4:22	The Lord Iesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you, Amen. ‘The second Epistle written from Rome vnto Timotheus, the first Bishop elected of the Church of Ephesus, when Paul was presented the second time before the Emperour Nero.’

===== BOOK: 3 John =====
3 John 1:1	The Elder vnto the beloued Gaius, whom I loue in the trueth.
3 John 1:2	Beloued, I wish chiefly that thou prosperedst and faredst well as thy soule prospereth.
3 John 1:3	For I reioyced greatly when the brethren came, and testified of the trueth that is in thee, how thou walkest in the trueth.
3 John 1:4	I haue no greater ioy then these, that is, to heare that my sonnes walke in veritie.
3 John 1:5	Beloued, thou doest faithfully, whatsoeuer thou doest to the brethren, and to strangers,
3 John 1:6	Which bare witnesse of thy loue before the Churches. Whom if thou bringest on their iourney as it beseemeth according to God, thou shalt doe well,
3 John 1:7	Because that for his Names sake they went forth, and tooke nothing of the Gentiles.
3 John 1:8	We therefore ought to receiue such, that we might be helpers to the trueth.
3 John 1:9	I wrote vnto the Church: but Diotrephes which loueth to haue the preeminence among them, receiueth vs not.
3 John 1:10	Wherefore if I come, I will call to your remembrance his deedes which he doeth, pratling against vs with malicious wordes, and not therewith content, neither he himselfe receiueth the brethren, but forbiddeth them that woulde, and thrusteth them out of the Church.
3 John 1:11	Beloued, follow not that which is euill, but that which is good: he that doeth well, is of God: but he that doeth euill, hath not seene God.
3 John 1:12	Demetrius hath good report of al men, and of the trueth it selfe: yea, and wee our selues beare recorde, and ye know that our record is true.
3 John 1:13	I haue many things to write: but I will not with yncke and pen write vnto thee:
3 John 1:14	For I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall speake mouth to mouth. Peace be with thee. The friends salute thee. Greete the friends by name.

===== BOOK: Acts =====
Acts 1:1	I have made the former treatise, O Theophilus, of al that Jesus began to doe and teach,
Acts 1:2	Vntill the day that hee was taken vp, after that hee through the holy Ghost, had giuen commandements vnto the Apostles, whome hee had chosen:
Acts 1:3	To whome also he presented himselfe aliue after that he had suffered, by many infallible tokens, being seene of them by the space of fourtie daies, and speaking of those thinges which appertaine to the kingdome of God.
Acts 1:4	And when he had gathered them together, he commanded them, that they should not depart from Hierusalem, but to waite for the promise of the Father, which sayde hee, yee haue heard of me.
Acts 1:5	For Iohn in deede baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the holy Ghost within these fewe daies.
Acts 1:6	When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore the kingdome to Israel?
Acts 1:7	And hee saide vnto them, It is not for you to know the times, or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his owne power,
Acts 1:8	But yee shall receiue power of the holy Ghost, when he shall come on you: and ye shalbe witnesses vnto me both in Hierusalem and in all Iudea, and in Samaria, and vnto the vttermost part of the earth.
Acts 1:9	And when he had spoken these things, while they behelde, he was taken vp: for a cloude tooke him vp out of their sight.
Acts 1:10	And while they looked stedfastly towarde heauen, as hee went, beholde, two men stoode by them in white apparell,
Acts 1:11	Which also sayde, Yee men of Galile, why stande yee gasing into heauen? This Iesus which is taken vp from you into heauen, shall so come, as yee haue seene him goe into heauen.
Acts 1:12	Then returned they vnto Hierusalem from the mount that is called the mount of Oliues, which is neere to Hierusalem, being from it a Sabbath daies iourney.
Acts 1:13	And when they were come in, they went vp into an vpper chamber, where abode both Peter and Iames, and Iohn, and Andrew, Philip, and Thomas, Bartlemew, and Matthewe, Iames the sonne of Alpheus, and Simon Zelotes, and Iudas Iames brother.
Acts 1:14	These all continued with one accorde in prayer and supplication with the women, and Marie the mother of Iesus, and with his brethren.
Acts 1:15	And in those dayes Peter stoode vp in the middes of the disciples, and sayde (nowe the nomber of names that were in one place were about an hundreth and twentie.)
Acts 1:16	Yee men and brethren, this scripture must needes haue beene fulfilled, which the holy Ghost by the mouth of Dauid spake before of Iudas, which was guide to them that tooke Iesus.
Acts 1:17	For hee was nombred with vs, and had obteined fellowship in this ministration.
Acts 1:18	He therefore hath purchased a field with the reward of iniquitie: and when he had throwen downe himselfe headlong, hee brast asunder in the middes, and all his bowels gushed out.
Acts 1:19	And it is knowen vnto all the inhabitants of Hierusalem, in so much, that that field is called in their owne language, Aceldama, That is, the field of blood.
Acts 1:20	For it is written in the booke of Psalmes, Let his habitation be void, and let no man dwel therein: also, Let another take his charge.
Acts 1:21	Wherefore of these men which haue companied with vs, all the time that the Lord Iesus was conuersant among vs,
Acts 1:22	Beginning from the baptisme of Iohn vnto the day that hee was taken vp from vs, must one of them bee made a witnesse with vs of his resurrection.
Acts 1:23	And they presented two, Ioseph called Barsabas, whose surname was Iustus, and Matthias.
Acts 1:24	And they praied, saying, Thou Lord, which knowest the hearts of all men, shewe whether of these two thou hast chosen,
Acts 1:25	That he may take the roume of this ministration and Apostleship, from which Iudas hath gone astray, to goe to his owne place.
Acts 1:26	Then they gaue foorth their lottes: and the lotte fell on Matthias, and hee was by a common consent counted with the eleuen Apostles.
Acts 2:1	And when the day of Pentecost was come, they were al with one accord in one place.
Acts 2:2	And suddenly there came a sounde from heauen, as of a russhing and mightie winde, and it filled all the house where they sate.
Acts 2:3	And there appeared vnto them clouen tongues, like fire, and it sate vpon eche of them.
Acts 2:4	And they were all filled with the holy Ghost, and began to speake with other tongues, as the Spirit gaue them vtterance.
Acts 2:5	And there were dwelling at Hierusalem Iewes, men that feared God, of euery nation vnder heauen.
Acts 2:6	Nowe when this was noised, the multitude came together and were astonied, because that euery man heard them speake his owne language.
Acts 2:7	And they wondered al, and marueiled, saying among themselues, Beholde, are not all these which speake, of Galile?
Acts 2:8	How then heare we euery man our owne language, wherein we were borne?
Acts 2:9	Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the inhabitants of Mesopotamia, and of Iudea, and of Cappadocia, of Pontus, and Asia,
Acts 2:10	And of Phrygia, and Pamphylia, of Egypt, and of the partes of Libya, which is beside Cyrene, and strangers of Rome, and Iewes, and Proselytes,
Acts 2:11	Creetes, and Arabians: wee hearde them speake in our owne tongues the wonderful works of God.
Acts 2:12	They were all then amased, and douted, saying one to another, What may this be?
Acts 2:13	And others mocked, and saide, They are full of newe wine.
Acts 2:14	But Peter standing with ye Eleuen, lift vp his voice, and said vnto them, Ye men of Iudea, and ye all that inhabite Hierusalem, be this knowen vnto you, and hearken vnto my woordes.
Acts 2:15	For these are not drunken, as yee suppose, since it is but the third houre of the day.
Acts 2:16	But this is that, which was spoken by the Prophet Ioel,
Acts 2:17	And it shalbe in the last daies, saith God, I wil powre out of my Spirite vpon al flesh, and your sonnes, and your daughters shall prophecie, and your yong men shall see visions, and your old men shall dreame dreames.
Acts 2:18	And on my seruauntes, and on mine handmaides I will powre out of my Spirite in those daies, and they shall prophecie.
Acts 2:19	And I wil shew wonders in heauen aboue, and tokens in the earth beneath, blood, and fire, and the vapour of smoke.
Acts 2:20	The Sunne shalbe turned into darkenesse, and the moone into blood, before that great and notable day of the Lord come.
Acts 2:21	And it shalbe, that whosoeuer shall call on the Name of the Lord, shalbe saued.
Acts 2:22	Yee men of Israel, heare these woordes, JESUS of Nazareth, a man approued of God among you with great workes, and wonders, and signes, which God did by him in the middes of you, as yee your selues also knowe:
Acts 2:23	Him, I say, being deliuered by the determinate counsell, and foreknowledge of God, after you had taken, with wicked handes you haue crucified and slaine.
Acts 2:24	Whome God hath raised vp, and loosed the sorrowes of death, because it was vnpossible that he should be holden of it.
Acts 2:25	For Dauid sayeth concerning him, I beheld the Lord alwaies before me: for hee is at my right hand, that I should not be shaken.
Acts 2:26	Therefore did mine heart reioyce, and my tongue was glad, and moreouer also my flesh shall rest in hope,
Acts 2:27	Because thou wilt not leaue my soule in graue, neither wilt suffer thine Holy one to see corruption.
Acts 2:28	Thou hast shewed me the waies of life, and shalt make me full of ioy with thy countenance.
Acts 2:29	Men and brethren, I may boldly speake vnto you of the Patriarke Dauid, that hee is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre remaineth with vs vnto this day.
Acts 2:30	Therefore, seeing hee was a Prophet, and knewe that God had sworne with an othe to him, that of the fruite of his loynes hee woulde raise vp Christ concerning the flesh, to set him vpon his throne,
Acts 2:31	Hee knowing this before, spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soule shoulde not bee left in graue, neither his flesh shoulde see corruption.
Acts 2:32	This Iesus hath God raised vp, whereof we all are witnesses.
Acts 2:33	Since then that he by the right hande of God hath bene exalted, and hath receiued of his Father the promise of the holy Ghost, hee hath shed foorth this which yee nowe see and heare.
Acts 2:34	For Dauid is not ascended into heauen, but he sayth, The Lord sayd to my Lord, Sit at my right hande,
Acts 2:35	Vntill I make thine enemies thy footestoole.
Acts 2:36	Therefore, let all the house of Israel know for a suretie, that God hath made him both Lord, and Christ, this Iesus, I say, whome yee haue crucified.
Acts 2:37	Now when they heard it, they were pricked in their heartes, and said vnto Peter and the other Apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we doe?
Acts 2:38	Then Peter said vnto them, Amend your liues, and bee baptized euery one of you in the Name of Iesus Christ for the remission of sinnes: and ye shall receiue the gift of the holy Ghost.
Acts 2:39	For the promise is made vnto you, and to your children, and to all that are a farre off, euen as many as the Lord our God shall call.
Acts 2:40	And with many other words he besought and exhorted them, saying, Saue your selues from this froward generation.
Acts 2:41	Then they that gladly receiued his word, were baptized: and the same day there were added to the Church about three thousand soules.
Acts 2:42	And they continued in the Apostles doctrine, and fellowship, and breaking of bread, and prayers.
Acts 2:43	And feare came vpon euery soule: and many wonders and signes were done by ye Apostles.
Acts 2:44	And all that beleeued, were in one place, and had all things common.
Acts 2:45	And they sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all me, as euery one had need.
Acts 2:46	And they continued dayly with one accord in the Temple, and breaking bread at home, did eate their meate together with gladnesse and singlenesse of heart,
Acts 2:47	Praysing God, and had fauour with all the people: and the Lord added to the Church from day to day, such as should be saued.
Acts 3:1	Nowe Peter and Iohn went vp together into the Temple, at the ninth houre of prayer.
Acts 3:2	And a certaine man which was a creeple from his mothers wombe, was caried, whom they layde dayly at the gate of the Temple called Beautifull, to aske almes of them that entred into ye Temple.
Acts 3:3	Who seeing Peter and Iohn, that they would enter into the Temple, desired to receiue an almes.
Acts 3:4	And Peter earnestly beholding him with Iohn, said, Looke on vs.
Acts 3:5	And hee gaue heede vnto them, trusting to receiue some thing of them.
Acts 3:6	Then said Peter, Siluer and gold haue I none, but such as I haue, that giue I thee: In the Name of Iesus Christ of Nazareth, rise vp and walke.
Acts 3:7	And hee tooke him by the right hand, and lift him vp, and immediately his feete and ankle bones receiued strength.
Acts 3:8	And he leaped vp, stoode, and walked, and entred with them into the Temple, walking and leaping, and praysing God.
Acts 3:9	And all the people sawe him walke, and praysing God.
Acts 3:10	And they knewe him, that it was he which sate for the almes at the Beautifull gate of the Temple: and they were amased, and sore astonied at that, which was come vnto him.
Acts 3:11	And as the creeple which was healed, held Peter and Iohn, all the people ranne amased vnto them in the porch which is called Salomons.
Acts 3:12	So when Peter saw it, he answered vnto the people, Ye me of Israel, why marueile ye at this? or why looke ye so stedfastly on vs, as though by our owne power or godlines, we had made this man go?
Acts 3:13	The God of Abraham, and Isaac, and Iacob, the God of our fathers hath glorified his Sonne Iesus, whom ye betrayed, and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he had iudged him to be deliuered.
Acts 3:14	But ye denied the Holy one and the Iust, and desired a murtherer to be giuen you,
Acts 3:15	And killed the Lord of life, whome God hath raised from the dead, whereof we are witnesses.
Acts 3:16	And his Name hath made this man sound, whom ye see, and know, through faith in his Name: and the faith which is by him, hath giuen to him this perfite health of his whole body in the presence of you all.
Acts 3:17	And now brethren, I know that through ignorance ye did it, as did also your gouernours.
Acts 3:18	But those thinges which God before had shewed by the mouth of all his Prophets, that Christ should suffer, he hath thus fulfilled.
Acts 3:19	Amend your liues therefore, and turne, that your sinnes may be put away, whe the time of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord.
Acts 3:20	And he shall sende Iesus Christ, which before was preached vnto you,
Acts 3:21	Whome the heauen must containe vntill the time that all thinges be restored, which God had spoken by the mouth of all his holy Prophets since the world began.
Acts 3:22	For Moses said vnto the Fathers, The Lord your God shall raise vp vnto you a Prophet, euen of your brethren, like vnto me: ye shall heare him in all things, whatsoeuer he shall say vnto you.
Acts 3:23	For it shalbe that euery person which shall not heare that Prophet, shall be destroyed out of the people.
Acts 3:24	Also all the Prophets from Samuel, and thencefoorth as many as haue spoken, haue likewise foretolde of these dayes.
Acts 3:25	Ye are the children of the Prophets, and of the couenant, which God hath made vnto our fathers, saying to Abraham, Euen in thy seede shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.
Acts 3:26	First vnto you hath God raysed vp his Sonne Iesus, and him hee hath sent to blesse you, in turning euery one of you from your iniquities.
Acts 4:1	And as they spake vnto the people, the Priestes and the Captaine of the Temple, and the Sadduces came vpon them,
Acts 4:2	Taking it grieuously that they taught the people, and preached in Iesus Name the resurrection from the dead.
Acts 4:3	And they layde handes on them, and put them in holde, vntill the next day: for it was now euentide.
Acts 4:4	Howbeit, many of them which heard the word, beleeued, and the number of the men was about fiue thousand.
Acts 4:5	And it came to passe on the morow, that their rulers, and Elders, and Scribes, were gathered together at Hierusalem,
Acts 4:6	And Annas the chiefe Priest, and Caiaphas, and Iohn, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the hie Priestes.
Acts 4:7	And whe they had set them before them, they asked, By what power, or in what Name haue ye done this?
Acts 4:8	Then Peter ful of the holy Ghost, said vnto them, Ye rulers of the people, and Elders of Israel,
Acts 4:9	For as much as we this day are examined of the good deede done to the impotent man, to wit, by what meanes he is made whole,
Acts 4:10	Be it knowen vnto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the Name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye haue crucified, whome God raised againe from the dead, euen by him doth this man stand here before you, whole.
Acts 4:11	This is the stone cast aside of you builders which is become the head of the corner.
Acts 4:12	Neither is there saluation in any other: for among men there is giuen none other Name vnder heauen, whereby we must be saued.
Acts 4:13	Now when they sawe the boldnes of Peter and Iohn, and vnderstoode that they were vnlearned men and without knowledge, they marueiled, and knew them, that they had bin with Iesus:
Acts 4:14	And beholding also the man which was healed standing with them, they had nothing to say against it.
Acts 4:15	Then they commanded them to goe aside out of the Council, and conferred among themselues,
Acts 4:16	Saying, What shall we doe to these men? for surely a manifest signe is done by them, and it is openly knowen to all them that dwell in Hierusalem: and we cannot denie it.
Acts 4:17	But that it be noysed no farther among the people, let vs threaten and charge them, that they speake hencefoorth to no man in this Name.
Acts 4:18	So they called them, and commanded them, that in no wise they should speake or teach in the Name of Iesus.
Acts 4:19	But Peter and Iohn answered vnto them, and said, Whether it be right in the sight of God, to obey you rather then God, iudge ye.
Acts 4:20	For we cannot but speake the things which we haue seene and heard.
Acts 4:21	So they threatened them, and let them goe, and found nothing how to punish them, because of the people: for all men praised God for that which was done.
Acts 4:22	For the man was aboue fourtie yeeres olde, on whome this miracle of healing was shewed.
Acts 4:23	Then assoone as they were let goe, they came to their fellowes, and shewed all that the hie Priestes and Elders had said vnto them.
Acts 4:24	And when they heard it, they lift vp their voyces to God with one accord, and said, O Lord, thou art the God which hast made the heaue, and the earth, the sea, and all things that are in them,
Acts 4:25	Which by the mouth of thy seruant Dauid hast saide, Why did the Gentiles rage, and the people imagine vaine things?
Acts 4:26	The Kings of the earth assembled, and the rulers came together against the Lord, and against his Christ.
Acts 4:27	For doutlesse, against thine holy Sonne Iesus, whome thou haddest anoynted, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel gathered themselues together,
Acts 4:28	To doe whatsoeuer thine hand, and thy counsell had determined before to be done.
Acts 4:29	And nowe, O Lord, beholde their threatnings, and graunt vnto thy seruants with all boldnesse to speake thy word,
Acts 4:30	So that thou stretch forth thine hand, that healing, and signes, and wonders may be done by the Name of thine holy Sonne Iesus.
Acts 4:31	And when as they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they were all filled with the holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God boldely.
Acts 4:32	And the multitude of them that beleeued, were of one heart, and of one soule: neither any of them said, that any thing of that which he possessed, was his owne, but they had all thinges common.
Acts 4:33	And with great power gaue the Apostles witnes of the resurrection of the Lord Iesus: and great grace was vpon them all.
Acts 4:34	Neither was there any among them, that lacked: for as many as were possessours of landes or houses, solde them, and brought the price of the things that were solde,
Acts 4:35	And layde it downe at the Apostles feete, and it was distributed vnto euery man, according as he had neede.
Acts 4:36	Also Ioses which was called of the Apostles, Barnabas (that is by interpretation the sonne of consolation) being a Leuite, and of the countrey of Cyprus,
Acts 4:37	Where as he had land, solde it, and brought the money, and laid it downe at the Apostles feete.
Acts 5:1	But a certaine man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, solde a possession,
Acts 5:2	And kept away part of the price, his wife also being of counsell, and brought a certaine part, and layde it downe at the Apostles feete.
Acts 5:3	Then saide Peter, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart, that thou shouldest lye vnto the holy Ghost, and keepe away part of the price of this possession?
Acts 5:4	Whiles it remained, appertained it not vnto thee? and after it was solde, was it not in thine owne power? howe is it that thou hast conceiued this thing in thine heart? thou hast not lyed vnto men, but vnto God.
Acts 5:5	Now when Ananias heard these wordes, he fell downe, and gaue vp the ghost. Then great feare came on all them that heard these things.
Acts 5:6	And the yong men rose vp, and tooke him vp, and caried him out, and buried him.
Acts 5:7	And it came to passe about the space of three houres after, that his wife came in, ignorant of that which was done.
Acts 5:8	And Peter sayd vnto her, Tell me, solde ye the land for so much? And she sayd, Yea, for so much.
Acts 5:9	Then Peter sayde vnto her, Why haue ye agreed together, to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? beholde, the feete of them which haue buried thine husband, are at the doore, and shall carie thee out.
Acts 5:10	Then she fell downe straightway at his feete, and yeelded vp the ghost: and the yong men came in, and found her dead, and caried her out, and buried her by her husband.
Acts 5:11	And great feare came on all the Church, and on as many as heard these things.
Acts 5:12	Thus by the hands of the Apostles were many signes and wonders shewed among the people (and they were all with one accorde in Salomons porche.
Acts 5:13	And of the other durst no man ioyne him selfe to them: neuerthelesse the people magnified them.
Acts 5:14	Also the number of them that beleeued in the Lord, both of men and women, grewe more and more)
Acts 5:15	In so much that they brought the sicke into the streetes, and layd them on beds and couches, that at the least way the shadowe of Peter, when he came by, might shadow some of them.
Acts 5:16	There came also a multitude out of the cities round about vnto Hierusalem, bringing sicke folkes, and them which were vexed with vncleane spirits, who were all healed.
Acts 5:17	Then the chiefe Priest rose vp, and all they that were with him (which was the sect of the Sadduces) and were full of indignation,
Acts 5:18	And laide hands on the Apostles, and put them in the common prison.
Acts 5:19	But the Angel of the Lord, by night opened the prison doores, and brought them forth, and sayd,
Acts 5:20	Go your way, and stand in the Temple, and speake to the people, all the wordes of this life.
Acts 5:21	So when they heard it, they entred into the Temple early in the morning, and taught. And the chiefe Priest came, and they that were with him, and called the Councill together, and all the Elders of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison, to cause them to be brought.
Acts 5:22	But when the officers came, and found them not in the prison, they returned and tolde it,
Acts 5:23	Saying, Certainely we founde the prison shut as sure as was possible, and the keepers standing without, before the doores: but when we had opened, we found no man within.
Acts 5:24	Then when the chiefe Priest, and the captaine of the Temple, and the hie Priestes heard these things, they doubted of them, whereunto this would growe.
Acts 5:25	Then came one and shewed them, saying, Beholde, the men that ye put in prison, are standing in the Temple, and teach the people.
Acts 5:26	Then went the captaine with the officers, and brought them without violence (for they feared the people, lest they should haue bene stoned)
Acts 5:27	And when they had brought them, they set them before the Councill, and the chiefe Priest asked them,
Acts 5:28	Saying, Did not we straightly commaund you, that ye should not teach in this Name? and behold, ye haue filled Hierusale with your doctrine, and ye would bring this mans blood vpon vs.
Acts 5:29	Then Peter and the Apostles answered, and sayd, We ought rather to obey God then men.
Acts 5:30	The God of our fathers hath raised vp Iesus, whom ye slewe, and hanged on a tree.
Acts 5:31	Him hath God lift vp with his right hand, to be a Prince and a Sauiour, to giue repentance to Israel, and forgiuenes of sinnes.
Acts 5:32	And we are his witnesses concerning these things which we say: yea, and the holy Ghost, whome God hath giuen to them that obey him.
Acts 5:33	Now when they heard it, they brast for anger, and consulted to slay them.
Acts 5:34	Then stoode there vp in the Councill a certaine Pharise named Gamaliel, a doctour of the Lawe, honoured of all the people, and commanded to put the Apostles forth a litle space,
Acts 5:35	And sayd vnto them, Men of Israel, take heede to your selues, what ye intende to doe touching these men.
Acts 5:36	For before these times, rose vp Theudas boasting himselfe, to whom resorted a number of men, about a foure hundreth, who was slaine: and they all which obeyed him, were scattered, and brought to nought.
Acts 5:37	After this man, arose vp Iudas of Galile, in the dayes of the tribute, and drewe away much people after him: hee also perished, and all that obeyed him, were scattered abroad.
Acts 5:38	And nowe I say vnto you, Refraine your selues from these men, and let them alone: for if this counsell, or this worke be of men, it will come to nought:
Acts 5:39	But if it be of God, ye can not destroy it, lest ye be found euen fighters against God.
Acts 5:40	And to him they agreed, and called the Apostles: and when they had beaten them, they commanded that they should not speake in the Name of Iesus, and let them goe.
Acts 5:41	So they departed from the Councill, reioycing, that they were counted worthy to suffer rebuke for his Name.
Acts 5:42	And dayly in the Temple, and from house to house they ceased not to teach, and preach Iesus Christ.
Acts 6:1	And in those dayes, as the nomber of ye disciples grewe, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians towards ye Hebrewes, because their widowes were neglected in the dayly ministring.
Acts 6:2	Then the twelue called the multitude of the disciples together, and sayd, It is not meete that we should leaue the worde of God to serue the tables.
Acts 6:3	Wherefore brethren, looke ye out among you seuen men of honest report, and full of the holy Ghost, and of wisedome, which we may appoint to this busines.
Acts 6:4	And we will giue our selues continually to prayer, and to the ministration of the worde.
Acts 6:5	And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose Steuen a man full of fayth and of the holy Ghost, and Philippe, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas a Proselyte of Antiochia,
Acts 6:6	Which they set before the Apostles: and they prayed, and layed their hands on them.
Acts 6:7	And the worde of God increased, and the nomber of the disciples was multipled in Hierusalem greatly, and a great company of the Priests were obedient to the faith.
Acts 6:8	Now Steuen full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people.
Acts 6:9	Then there arose certaine of the Synagogue, which are called Libertines, and Cyrenians, and of Alexandria, and of them of Cilicia, and of Asia, and disputed with Steuen.
Acts 6:10	But they were not able to resist the wisdome, and the Spirit by the which he spake.
Acts 6:11	Then they suborned men, which saide, We haue heard him speake blasphemous wordes against Moses, and God.
Acts 6:12	Thus they mooued the people and the Elders, and the Scribes: and running vpon him, caught him, and brought him to the Councill,
Acts 6:13	And set forth false witnesses, which sayd, This man ceasseth not to speake blasphemous wordes against this holy place, and the Law.
Acts 6:14	For we haue heard him say, that this Iesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the ordinances, which Moses gaue vs.
Acts 6:15	And as all that sate in the Councill, looked stedfastly on him, they saw his face as it had bene the face of an Angel.
Acts 7:1	Then sayd the chiefe Priest, Are these things so?
Acts 7:2	And he sayd, Ye men, brethren and Fathers, hearken. That God of glory appeared vnto our father Abraham, while he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Charran,
Acts 7:3	And said vnto him, Come out of thy countrey, and from thy kindred, and come into the land, which I shall shewe thee.
Acts 7:4	Then came he out of the land of the Chaldeans, and dwelt in Charran. And after that his father was dead, God brought him from thence into this land, wherein ye now dwell,
Acts 7:5	And hee gaue him none inheritance in it, no, not the bredth of a foote: yet he promised that he would giue it to him for a possession, and to his seede after him, when as yet hee had no childe.
Acts 7:6	But God spake thus, that his seede should be a soiourner in a strange land: and that they should keepe it in bondage, and entreate it euill foure hundreth yeeres.
Acts 7:7	But the nation to whome they shall be in bondage, will I iudge, sayth God: and after that, they shall come forth and serue me in this place.
Acts 7:8	Hee gaue him also the couenant of circumcision: and so Abraham begate Isaac, and circumcised him the eight day: and Isaac begate Iacob, and Iacob the twelue Patriarkes.
Acts 7:9	And the Patriarkes moued with enuie, solde Ioseph into Egypt: but God was with him,
Acts 7:10	And deliuered him out of all his afflictions, and gaue him fauour and wisdome in the sight of Pharao King of Egypt, who made him gouernour ouer Egypt, and ouer his whole house.
Acts 7:11	Then came there a famine ouer all the land of Egypt and Chanaan, and great affliction, that our fathers found no sustenance.
Acts 7:12	But when Iacob heard that there was corne in Egypt, he sent our fathers first:
Acts 7:13	And at the second time, Ioseph was knowen of his brethren, and Iosephs kindred was made knowen vnto Pharao.
Acts 7:14	Then sent Ioseph and caused his father to be brought, and all his kindred, euen threescore and fifteene soules.
Acts 7:15	So Iacob went downe into Egypt, and he dyed, and our fathers,
Acts 7:16	And were remoued into Sychem, and were put in the sepulchre, that Abraham had bought for money of the sonnes of Emor, sonne of Sychem.
Acts 7:17	But when the time of the promise drewe neere, which God had sworne to Abraham, the people grewe and multiplied in Egypt,
Acts 7:18	Till another King arose, which knewe not Ioseph.
Acts 7:19	The same dealt subtilly with our kindred, and euill entreated our fathers, and made them to cast out their yong children, that they should not remaine aliue.
Acts 7:20	The same time was Moses borne, and was acceptable vnto God, which was nourished vp in his fathers house three moneths.
Acts 7:21	And when he was cast out, Pharaohs daughter tooke him vp, and nourished him for her owne sonne.
Acts 7:22	And Moses was learned in all the wisdome of the Egyptians, and was mightie in wordes and in deedes.
Acts 7:23	Nowe when he was full fourtie yeere olde, it came into his heart to visite his brethren, the children of Israel.
Acts 7:24	And whe he saw one of them suffer wrong, he defended him, and auenged his quarell that had the harme done to him, and smote the Egyptian.
Acts 7:25	For hee supposed his brethren would haue vnderstand, that God by his hande should giue them deliuerance: but they vnderstoode it not.
Acts 7:26	And the next day, he shewed himselfe vnto them as they stroue, and woulde haue set them at one againe, saying, Syrs, ye are brethren: why doe ye wrong one to another?
Acts 7:27	But he that did his neighbour wrong, thrust him away, saying, Who made thee a prince, and a iudge ouer vs?
Acts 7:28	Wilt thou kill mee, as thou diddest the Egyptian yesterday?
Acts 7:29	Then fled Moses at that saying, and was a stranger in the land of Madian, where he begate two sonnes.
Acts 7:30	And when fourtie yeres were expired, there appeared to him in the wildernes of mout Sina, an Angel of the Lord in a flame of fire, in a bush.
Acts 7:31	And when Moses sawe it, hee wondred at the sight: and as he drew neere to consider it, the voyce of the Lord came vnto him, saying,
Acts 7:32	I am the God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Iacob. Then Moses trembled, and durst not behold it.
Acts 7:33	Then the Lord said to him, Put off thy shoes from thy feete: for the place where thou standest, is holy ground.
Acts 7:34	I haue seene, I haue seene the affliction of my people, which is in Egypt, and I haue heard their groning, and am come downe to deliuer them: and nowe come, and I will sende thee into Egypt.
Acts 7:35	This Moses whome they forsooke, saying, Who made thee a prince and a iudge? the same God sent for a prince, and a deliuerer by the hand of the Angel, which appeared to him in the bush.
Acts 7:36	Hee brought them out, doing wonders, and miracles in the land of Egypt, and in the red sea, and in the wildernes fourtie yeeres.
Acts 7:37	This is that Moses, which saide vnto the children of Israel, A Prophet shall the Lord your God raise vp vnto you, euen of your brethren, like vnto me: him shall ye heare.
Acts 7:38	This is he that was in the Congregation, in the wildernes with the Angell, which spake to him in mount Sina, and with our fathers, who receiued the liuely oracles to giue vnto vs.
Acts 7:39	To whom our fathers would not obey, but refused, and in their hearts turned backe againe into Egypt:
Acts 7:40	Saying vnto Aaron, Make vs gods that may goe before vs: for we knowe not what is become of this Moses that brought vs out of the land of Egypt.
Acts 7:41	And they made a calfe in those dayes, and offered sacrifice vnto the idole, and reioyced in the workes of their owne handes.
Acts 7:42	Then God turned himselfe away, and gaue them vp to serue the host of heauen, as it is written in the booke of the Prophets, O house of Israel, haue ye offred to me slaine beasts and sacrifices by the space of fourtie yeres in the wildernes?
Acts 7:43	And ye tooke vp the tabernacle of Moloch, and the starre of your god Remphan, figures, which ye made to worship them: therefore I will carie you away beyond Babylon.
Acts 7:44	Our fathers had the tabernacle of witnes, in the wildernes, as hee had appointed, speaking vnto Moses, that he should make it according to the fashion that he had seene.
Acts 7:45	Which tabernacle also our fathers receiued, and brought in with Iesus into the possession of the Gentiles, which God draue out before our fathers, vnto the dayes of Dauid:
Acts 7:46	Who found fauour before God, and desired that hee might finde a tabernacle for the God of Iacob.
Acts 7:47	But Salomon built him an house.
Acts 7:48	Howbeit the most High dwelleth not in temples made with handes, as saith the Prophet,
Acts 7:49	Heauen is my throne, and earth is my footestoole: what house wil ye build for me, saith the Lord? or what place is it that I should rest in?
Acts 7:50	Hath not mine hand made all these things?
Acts 7:51	Ye stiffenecked and of vncircumcised heartes and eares, ye haue alwayes resisted the holy Ghost: as your fathers did, so do you.
Acts 7:52	Which of the Prophets haue not your fathers persecuted? and they haue slaine them, which shewed before of the comming of that Iust, of whome ye are now the betrayers and murtherers,
Acts 7:53	Which haue receiued the Lawe by the ordinance of Angels, and haue not kept it.
Acts 7:54	But when they heard these thinges, their heartes brast for anger, and they gnashed at him with their teeth.
Acts 7:55	But he being full of the holy Ghost, looked stedfastly into heauen, and sawe the glory of God, and Iesus standing at the right hand of God,
Acts 7:56	And said, Beholde, I see the heauens open, and the Sonne of man standing at the right hand of God.
Acts 7:57	Then they gaue a shoute with a loude voyce, and stopped their eares, and ranne vpon him violently all at once,
Acts 7:58	And cast him out of the citie, and stoned him: and the witnesses layd downe their clothes at a yong mans feete, named Saul.
Acts 7:59	And they stoned Steuen, who called on God, and said, Lord Iesus, receiue my spirit.
Acts 7:60	And he kneeled downe, and cried with a loude voyce, Lord, laye not this sinne to their charge. And when he had thus spoken, he slept.
Acts 8:1	And Saul consented to his death, and at that time, there was a great persecution against the Church which was at Hierusalem, and they were all scattered abroad thorowe the regions of Iudea and of Samaria, except the Apostles.
Acts 8:2	Then certaine men fearing God, caried Steuen amongs them, to be buried, and made great lamentation for him.
Acts 8:3	But Saul made hauocke of the Church, and entred into euery house, and drewe out both men and women, and put them into prison.
Acts 8:4	Therefore they that were scattered abroad, went to and from preaching the worde.
Acts 8:5	Then came Philip into the citie of Samaria, and preached Christ vnto them.
Acts 8:6	And the people gaue heed vnto those things which Philippe spake, with one accorde, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did.
Acts 8:7	For vncleane spirits crying with a loud voyce, came out of many that were possessed of them: and many taken with palsies, and that halted, were healed.
Acts 8:8	And there was great ioy in that citie.
Acts 8:9	And there was before in the citie a certaine man called Simon, which vsed witchcraft, and bewitched the people of Samaria, saying that he himselfe was some great man.
Acts 8:10	To whome they gaue heede from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is that great power of God.
Acts 8:11	And they gaue heed vnto him, because that of long time he had bewitched them with sorceries.
Acts 8:12	But assoone as they beleeued Philip, which preached the thinges that concerned the kingdome of God, and the Name of Iesus Christ, they were baptized both men and women.
Acts 8:13	Then Simon himselfe beleeued also and was baptized, and continued with Philippe, and wondred, when he sawe the signes and great miracles which were done.
Acts 8:14	Nowe when the Apostles, which were at Hierusalem, heard say, that Samaria had receiued the worde of God, they sent vnto them Peter and Iohn.
Acts 8:15	Which whe they were come downe, prayed for them, that they might receiue the holy Ghost.
Acts 8:16	(For as yet, hee was fallen downe on none of them, but they were baptized onely in the Name of the Lord Iesus.)
Acts 8:17	Then layd they their handes on them, and they receiued the holy Ghost.
Acts 8:18	And when Simon sawe, that through laying on of the Apostles hands the holy Ghost was giuen, he offred them money,
Acts 8:19	Saying, Giue mee also this power, that on whomsoeuer I lay the handes, he may receiue the holy Ghost.
Acts 8:20	Then saide Peter vnto him, Thy money perish with thee, because thou thinkest that the gift of God may be obteined with money.
Acts 8:21	Thou hast neither part nor fellowship in this businesse: for thine heart is not right in the sight of God.
Acts 8:22	Repent therefore of this thy wickednes, and pray God, that if it be possible, the thought of thine heart may be forgiuen thee.
Acts 8:23	For I see that thou art in the gall of bitternes, and in the bonde of iniquitie.
Acts 8:24	Then answered Simon, and said, Pray ye to the Lord for me, that none of these things which ye haue spoken, come vpon me.
Acts 8:25	So they, when they had testified and preached the worde of the Lord, returned to Hierusalem, and preached the Gospel in many townes of the Samaritans.
Acts 8:26	Then the Angel of the Lord spake vnto Philip, saying, Arise, and goe towarde the South vnto the way that goeth downe from Hierusalem vnto Gaza, which is waste.
Acts 8:27	And hee arose and went on: and beholde, a certaine Eunuche of Ethiopia, Candaces the Queene of the Ethiopians chiefe Gouernour, who had the rule of all her treasure, and came to Hierusalem to worship:
Acts 8:28	And as he returned sitting in his charet, he read Esaias the Prophet.
Acts 8:29	Then the Spirit said vnto Philip, Goe neere and ioyne thy selfe to yonder charet.
Acts 8:30	And Philip ranne thither, and heard him reade the Prophet Esaias, and said, But vnderstandest thou what thou readest?
Acts 8:31	And he saide, Howe can I, except I had a guide? And he desired Philip, that he would come vp and sit with him.
Acts 8:32	Nowe the place of the Scripture which he read, was this, Hee was lead as a sheepe to the slaughter: and like a lambe domme before his shearer, so opened he not his mouth.
Acts 8:33	In his humilitie his iudgement hath bene exalted: but who shall declare his generation? for his life is taken from the earth.
Acts 8:34	Then the Eunuche answered Philippe, and saide, I pray thee of whome speaketh the Prophet this? of himselfe, or of some other man?
Acts 8:35	Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same Scripture, and preached vnto him Iesus.
Acts 8:36	And as they went on their way, they came vnto a certaine water, and the Eunuche said, See, here is water: what doeth let me to be baptized?
Acts 8:37	And Philippe said vnto him, If thou beleeuest with all thine heart, thou mayest. Then he answered, and saide, I beleeue that that Iesus Christ is that Sonne of God.
Acts 8:38	Then he commanded the charet to stand stil: and they went downe both into the water, both Philip and the Eunuche, and he baptized him.
Acts 8:39	And assoone as they were come vp out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip, that the Eunuche sawe him no more: so he went on his way reioycing.
Acts 8:40	But Philippe was found at Azotus, and he walked to and from preaching in all the cities, till he came to Cesarea.
Acts 9:1	And Saul yet breathing out threatnings and slaughter against the disciples of ye Lord, went vnto the hie Priest,
Acts 9:2	And desired of him letters to Damascus to the Synagogues, that if he found any that were of that way (either men or women) hee might bring them bound vnto Hierusalem.
Acts 9:3	Now as he iourneyed, it came to passe that as he was come neere to Damascus, suddenly there shined rounde about him a light from heauen.
Acts 9:4	And hee fell to the earth, and heard a voyce, saying to him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?
Acts 9:5	And he sayd, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord sayd, I am Iesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kicke against pricks.
Acts 9:6	He then both trembling and astonied, sayd, Lord, what wilt thou that I doe? And the Lord sayd vnto him, Arise and goe into the citie, and it shall be tolde thee what thou shalt doe.
Acts 9:7	The men also which iourneyed with him, stood amased, hearing his voyce, but seeing no man.
Acts 9:8	And Saul arose from the ground, and opened his eyes, but sawe no man. Then led they him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus,
Acts 9:9	Where he was three dayes without sight, and neither ate nor dranke.
Acts 9:10	And there was a certaine disciple at Damascus named Ananias, and to him sayd the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And he sayd, Beholde, I am here Lord.
Acts 9:11	Then the Lord sayd vnto him, Arise, and goe into the streete which is called Straight, and seeke in the house of Iudas after one called Saul of Tarsus: for beholde, he prayeth.
Acts 9:12	(And he sawe in a vision a man named Ananias comming in to him, and putting his hands on him, that he might receiue his sight.)
Acts 9:13	Then Ananias answered, Lord, I haue heard by many of this man, howe much euill hee hath done to thy saints at Hierusalem.
Acts 9:14	Moreouer here hee hath authoritie of the hie Priestes, to binde all that call on thy Name.
Acts 9:15	Then the Lord said vnto him, Go thy way: for he is a chosen vessell vnto me, to beare my Name before the Gentiles, and Kings, and the children of Israel.
Acts 9:16	For I will shewe him, howe many things he must suffer for my Names sake.
Acts 9:17	Then Ananias went his way, and entred into that house, and put his hands on him, and sayd, Brother Saul, the Lord hath sent me (euen Iesus that appeared vnto thee in the way as thou camest) that thou mightest receiue thy sight, and be filled with the holy Ghost.
Acts 9:18	And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had bene scales, and suddenly he receiued sight, and arose, and was baptized,
Acts 9:19	And receiued meate, and was strengthened. So was Saul certaine dayes with the disciples which were at Damascus.
Acts 9:20	And straightway hee preached Christ in the Synagogues, that he was that Sonne of God,
Acts 9:21	So that all that heard him, were amased, and sayde, Is not this hee, that made hauocke of them which called on this Name in Hierusalem, and came hither for that intent, that hee should bring them bound vnto the hie Priests?
Acts 9:22	But Saul encreased the more in strength, and confounded the Iewes which dwelt at Damascus, confirming, that this was that Christ.
Acts 9:23	And after that many dayes were fulfilled, the Iewes tooke counsell together, to kill him,
Acts 9:24	But their laying awayte was knowen of Saul: nowe they watched the gates day and night, that they might kill him.
Acts 9:25	Then the disciples tooke him by night, and put him through the wall, and let him downe by a rope in a basket.
Acts 9:26	And when Saul was come to Hierusalem, he assayed to ioyne himselfe with the disciples: but they were all afrayd of him, and beleeued not that he was a disciple.
Acts 9:27	But Barnabas tooke him, and brought him to the Apostles, and declared to them, howe hee had seene the Lord in the way, and that hee had spoken vnto him, and how he had spoken boldly at Damascus in the Name of Iesus.
Acts 9:28	And hee was conuersant with them at Hierusalem,
Acts 9:29	And spake boldly in the Name of the Lord Iesus, and spake and disputed against the Grecians: but they went about to slay him.
Acts 9:30	But when the brethren knewe it, they brought him to Cesarea, and sent him forth to Tarsus.
Acts 9:31	Then had the Churches rest through all Iudea, and Galile, and Samaria, and were edified and walked in the feare of the Lord, and were multiplied by the comfort of the holy Ghost.
Acts 9:32	And it came to passe, as Peter walked throughout all quarters, hee came also to the saints which dwelt at Lydda.
Acts 9:33	And there he found a certaine man named Aeneas, which had kept his couch eight yeeres, and was sicke of the palsie.
Acts 9:34	Then said Peter vnto him, Aeneas, Iesus Christ maketh thee whole: arise and trusse thy couch together. And he arose immediately.
Acts 9:35	And all that dwelt at Lydda and Saron, sawe him, and turned to the Lord.
Acts 9:36	There was also at Ioppa a certaine woman, a disciple named Tabitha (which by interpretation is called Dorcas) she was full of good workes and almes which she did.
Acts 9:37	And it came to passe in those dayes, that she was sicke and dyed: and when they had washed her, they layd her in an vpper chamber.
Acts 9:38	Now forasmuch as Lydda was neere to Ioppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent vnto him two men, desiring that he would not delay to come vnto them.
Acts 9:39	Then Peter arose and came with them: and when hee was come, they brought him into the vpper chamber, where all the widowes stoode by him weeping, and shewing the coates and garments, which Dorcas made, while she was with them.
Acts 9:40	But Peter put them all forth, and kneeled downe, and prayed, and turned him to the body, and sayd, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes, and when she sawe Peter, sate vp.
Acts 9:41	Then he gaue her the hand and lift her vp, and called the Saints and widowes, and restored her aliue.
Acts 9:42	And it was knowen throughout all Ioppa, and many beleeued in the Lord.
Acts 9:43	And it came to passe that he taried many dayes in Ioppa with one Simon a Tanner.
Acts 10:1	Futhermore there was a certaine man in Cesarea called Cornelius, a captaine of the band called the Italian band,
Acts 10:2	A deuoute man, and one that feared God with all his housholde, which gaue much almes to the people, and prayed God continually.
Acts 10:3	He sawe in a vision euidently (about the ninth houre of the day) an Angel of God comming in to him, and saying vnto him, Cornelius.
Acts 10:4	But when hee looked on him, hee was afrayd, and sayd, What is it, Lord? and he sayd vnto him, Thy prayers and thine almes are come vp into remembrance before God.
Acts 10:5	Nowe therefore send men to Ioppa, and call for Simon, whose surname is Peter.
Acts 10:6	Hee lodgeth with one Simon a Tanner, whose house is by the sea side: he shall tell thee what thou oughtest to doe.
Acts 10:7	And when the Angel which spake vnto Cornelius, was departed, he called two of his seruants, and a souldier that feared God, one of them that waited on him,
Acts 10:8	And tolde them all things, and sent them to Ioppa.
Acts 10:9	On the morow as they went on their iourney, and drew neere vnto the citie, Peter went vp vpon the house to pray, about the sixt houre.
Acts 10:10	Then waxed hee an hungred, and would haue eaten: but while they made some thing ready, he fell into a trance.
Acts 10:11	And hee sawe heauen opened, and a certaine vessell come downe vnto him, as it had bene a great sheete, knit at the foure corners, and was let downe to the earth.
Acts 10:12	Wherein were all maner of foure footed beastes of the earth, and wilde beastes and creeping things, and foules of the heauen.
Acts 10:13	And there came a voyce to him, Arise, Peter: kill, and eate.
Acts 10:14	But Peter sayd, Not so, Lord: for I haue neuer eaten any thing that is polluted, or vncleane.
Acts 10:15	And the voyce spake vnto him againe the second time, The things that God hath purified, pollute thou not.
Acts 10:16	This was so done thrise: and the vessell was drawen vp againe into heauen.
Acts 10:17	Nowe while Peter douted in himselfe what this vision which he had seene, meant, beholde, the men which were sent from Cornelius, had inquired for Simons house, and stoode at the gate,
Acts 10:18	And called, and asked, whether Simon, which was surnamed Peter, were lodged there.
Acts 10:19	And while Peter thought on the vision, the Spirit sayde vnto him, Beholde, three men seeke thee.
Acts 10:20	Arise therefore, and get thee downe, and goe with them, and doute nothing: For I haue sent them.
Acts 10:21	Then Peter went downe to the men, which were sent vnto him from Cornelius, and sayd, Beholde, I am he whome ye seeke: what is the cause wherefore ye are come?
Acts 10:22	And they sayd, Cornelius the captaine, a iust man, and one that feareth God, and of good report among all the nation of the Iewes, was warned from heauen by an holy Angel, to send for thee into his house, and to heare thy wordes.
Acts 10:23	Then called he them in, and lodged them, and the next day, Peter went foorth with them, and certaine brethren from Ioppa accompanied him.
Acts 10:24	And the day after, they entred into Cesarea. Nowe Cornelius waited for them, and had called together his kinsemen, and special friends.
Acts 10:25	And it came to passe as Peter came in, that Cornelius met him, and fell downe at his feete, and worshipped him.
Acts 10:26	But Peter tooke him vp, saying, Stand vp: for euen I my selfe am a man.
Acts 10:27	And as he talked with him, he came in, and found many that were come together.
Acts 10:28	And he sayd vnto them, Ye know that it is an vnlawfull thing for a man that is a Iewe, to company, or come vnto one of another nation: but God hath shewed me, that I should not call any man polluted, or vncleane.
Acts 10:29	Therefore came I vnto you without saying nay, when I was sent for. I aske therefore, for what intent haue ye sent for me?
Acts 10:30	Then Cornelius sayd, Foure dayes agoe, about this houre, I fasted, and at the ninth houre I prayed in mine house, and beholde, a man stood before me in bright clothing,
Acts 10:31	And sayd, Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thine almes are had in remembrance in the sight of God.
Acts 10:32	Send therefore to Ioppa, and call for Simon, whose surname is Peter (he is lodged in the house of Simon a Tanner by the sea side) who when he commeth, shall speake vnto thee.
Acts 10:33	Then sent I for thee immediately, and thou hast well done to come. Nowe therefore are we all here present before God, to heare all things that are commanded thee of God.
Acts 10:34	Then Peter opened his mouth, and sayd, Of a trueth I perceiue, that God is no accepter of persons.
Acts 10:35	But in euery nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousnesse, is accepted with him.
Acts 10:36	Ye know the worde which God hath sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace by Iesus Christ, which is Lord of all:
Acts 10:37	Euen the worde which came through all Iudea, beginning in Galile, after the baptisme which Iohn preached.
Acts 10:38	To wit, howe God anointed Iesus of Nazareth with the holy Ghost, and with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the deuill: for God was with him.
Acts 10:39	And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the land of the Iewes, and in Hierusalem, whom they slewe, hanging him on a tree.
Acts 10:40	Him God raysed vp the third day, and caused that he was shewed openly:
Acts 10:41	Not to all the people, but vnto the witnesses chosen before of God, euen to vs which did eate and drinke with him, after he arose from the dead.
Acts 10:42	And he commanded vs to preach vnto the people, and to testifie, that it is he that is ordained of God a iudge of quicke and dead.
Acts 10:43	To him also giue all the Prophets witnesse, that through his Name all that beleeue in him, shall receiue remission of sinnes.
Acts 10:44	While Peter yet spake these wordes, the holy Ghost fell on al them which heard the word.
Acts 10:45	So they of the circumcision which beleeued, were astonied, as many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles also was powred out the gift of the holy Ghost.
Acts 10:46	For they heard them speake with tongues, and magnifie God. Then answered Peter,
Acts 10:47	Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, which haue receiued the holy Ghost, as well as we?
Acts 10:48	So he commanded them to be baptized in the Name of the Lord. Then prayed they him to tary certaine dayes.
Acts 11:1	Nowe the Apostles and the brethren that were in Iudea, heard, that the Gentiles had also receiued the worde of God.
Acts 11:2	And when Peter was come vp to Hierusalem, they of the circumcision contended against him,
Acts 11:3	Saying, Thou wentest in to men vncircumcised, and hast eaten with them.
Acts 11:4	Then Peter beganne, and expounded the thing in order to them, saying,
Acts 11:5	I was in the citie of Ioppa, praying, and in a trance I sawe this vision, A certaine vessell comming downe as it had bene a great sheete, let downe from heauen by the foure corners, and it came to me.
Acts 11:6	Towarde the which when I had fastened mine eyes, I considered, and sawe foure footed beastes of the earth, and wilde beastes, and creeping things, and foules of the heauen.
Acts 11:7	Also I heard a voyce, saying vnto me, Arise, Peter: slay and eate.
Acts 11:8	And I said, God forbid, Lord: for nothing polluted or vncleane hath at any time entred into my mouth.
Acts 11:9	But the voyce answered me the seconde time from heauen, The things that God hath purified, pollute thou not.
Acts 11:10	And this was done three times, and all were taken vp againe into heauen.
Acts 11:11	Then behold, immediatly there were three men already come vnto the house where I was, sent from Cesarea vnto me.
Acts 11:12	And the Spirit saide vnto me, that I should go with them, without doubting: moreouer these sixe brethren came with me, and we entred into the mans house.
Acts 11:13	And he shewed vs, howe he had seene an Angel in his house, which stoode and said to him, Send men to Ioppa, and call for Simon, whose surname is Peter.
Acts 11:14	He shall speake wordes vnto thee, whereby both thou and all thine house shalbe saued.
Acts 11:15	And as I began to speake, the holy Ghost fell on them, euen as vpon vs at the beginning.
Acts 11:16	Then I remembred the word of the Lord, howe he said, Iohn baptized with water, but ye shalbe baptized with the holy Ghost.
Acts 11:17	For as much then as God gaue them a like gift, as he did vnto vs, when we beleeued in the Lord Iesus Christ, who was I, that I coulde let God?
Acts 11:18	When they heard these things, they helde their peace, and glorified God, saying, Then hath God also to the Gentiles graunted repentance vnto life.
Acts 11:19	And they which were scattered abroade because of the affliction that arose about Steuen, went throughout till they came vnto Phenice and Cyprus, and Antiochia, preaching the worde to no man, but vnto the Iewes onely.
Acts 11:20	Now some of them were men of Cyprus and of Cyrene, which when they were come into Antiochia, spake vnto the Grecians, and preached the Lord Iesus.
Acts 11:21	And the hand of the Lord was with them, so that a great number beleeued and turned vnto the Lord.
Acts 11:22	Then tydings of those things came vnto the eares of the Church, which was in Hierusalem, and they sent foorth Barnabas, that he should goe vnto Antiochia.
Acts 11:23	Who when he was come and had seene the grace of God, was glad, and exhorted all, that with purpose of heart they would continue in the Lord.
Acts 11:24	For he was a good man, and full of the holy Ghost, and faith, and much people ioyned them selues vnto the Lord.
Acts 11:25	Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus to seeke Saul:
Acts 11:26	And when he had founde him, he brought him vnto Antiochia: and it came to passe that a whole yere they were conuersant with ye Church, and taught much people, in so much that the disciples were first called Christians in Antiochia.
Acts 11:27	In those dayes also came Prophets from Hierusalem vnto Antiochia.
Acts 11:28	And there stoode vp one of them named Agabus, and signified by the Spirit, that there should be great famine throughout all the world, which also came to passe vnder Claudius Cesar.
Acts 11:29	Then the disciples, euery man according to his ability, purposed to sende succour vnto the brethren which dwelt in Iudea.
Acts 11:30	Which thing they also did, and sent it to the Elders, by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
Acts 12:1	Nowe about that time, Herod the King stretched forth his hands to vexe certaine of the Church,
Acts 12:2	And he killed Iames the brother of Iohn with the sword.
Acts 12:3	And when he sawe that it pleased the Iewes, he proceeded further, to take Peter also (then were the dayes of vnleauened bread.)
Acts 12:4	And when he had caught him, he put him in prison, and deliuered him to foure quaternions of souldiers to be kept, intending after the Passeouer to bring him foorth to the people.
Acts 12:5	So Peter was kept in prison, but earnest prayer was made of ye Church vnto God for him.
Acts 12:6	And when Herod woulde haue brought him out vnto the people, the same night slept Peter betweene two souldiers, bound with two chaines, and the keepers before the doore, kept the prison.
Acts 12:7	And behold the Angel of the Lord came vpon them, and a light shined in the house, and he smote Peter on the side, and raysed him vp, saying, Arise quickely. And his chaines fell off from his handes.
Acts 12:8	And the Angel saide vnto him, Girde thy selfe, and binde on thy sandales. And so he did. Then he said vnto him, Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me.
Acts 12:9	So Peter came out and followed him, and knewe not that it was true, which was done by the Angel, but thought he had seene a vision.
Acts 12:10	Nowe when they were past the first and the second watch, they came vnto the yron gate, that leadeth vnto the citie, which opened to them by it owne accord, and they went out, and passed through one streete, and by and by the Angel departed from him.
Acts 12:11	And when Peter was come to himselfe, he said, Nowe I know for a trueth, that the Lord hath sent his Angel, and hath deliuered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the wayting for of the people of the Iewes.
Acts 12:12	And as he considered the thing, he came to the house of Marie, the mother of Iohn, whose surname was Marke, where many were gathered together, and prayed.
Acts 12:13	And when Peter knocked at the entrie doore, a maide came foorth to hearken, named Rhode,
Acts 12:14	But when she knew Peters voyce, she opened not the entrie doore for gladnesse, but ranne in, and tolde howe Peter stood before the entrie.
Acts 12:15	But they said vnto her, Thou art mad. Yet she affirmed it constantly, that it was so. Then said they, It is his Angel.
Acts 12:16	But Peter continued knocking, and when they had opened it, and sawe him, they were astonied.
Acts 12:17	And he beckened vnto them with the hand, to hold their peace, and told them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And he saide, Goe shewe these things vnto Iames and to the brethren: and he departed and went into an other place.
Acts 12:18	Nowe assoone as it was day, there was no small trouble among the souldiers, what was become of Peter.
Acts 12:19	And when Herod had sought for him, and found him not, he examined the keepers, and commanded them to be led to be punished. And he went downe from Iudea to Cesarea, and there abode.
Acts 12:20	Then Herod was angrie with them of Tyrus and Sidon, but they came all with one accord vnto him, and perswaded Blastus the Kings Chamberlaine, and they desired peace, because their countrey was nourished by the Kings land.
Acts 12:21	And vpon a day appointed, Herod arayed himselfe in royall apparell, and sate on the iudgement seate, and made an oration vnto them.
Acts 12:22	And the people gaue a shoute, saying, The voyce of God, and not of man.
Acts 12:23	But immediatly the Angel of the Lord smote him, because he gaue not glorie vnto God, so that he was eaten of wormes, and gaue vp the ghost.
Acts 12:24	And the worde of God grewe, and multiplied.
Acts 12:25	So Barnabas and Saul returned from Hierusalem, when they had fulfilled their office, and tooke with them Iohn, whose surname was Marke.
Acts 13:1	There were also in the Church that was at Antiochia, certaine Prophets and teachers, as Barnabas, and Simeon called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manahen (which had bin brought vp with Herod the Tetrarche) and Saul.
Acts 13:2	Nowe as they ministred to the Lord, and fasted, the holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul, for the worke whereunto I haue called them.
Acts 13:3	Then fasted they and prayed, and layde their hands on them, and let them goe.
Acts 13:4	And they, after they were sent foorth of the holy Ghost, came downe vnto Seleucia, and from thence they sayled to Cyprus.
Acts 13:5	And when they were at Salamis, they preached the worde of God in the Synagogues of the Iewes: and they had also Iohn to their minister.
Acts 13:6	So when they had gone throughout the yle vnto Paphus, they found a certaine sorcerer, a false prophet, being a Iewe, named Bariesus,
Acts 13:7	Which was with the Deputie Sergius Paulus, a prudent man. He called vnto him Barnabas and Saul, and desired to heare the woorde of God.
Acts 13:8	But Elymas, ye sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation) withstoode them, and sought to turne away the Deputie from the faith.
Acts 13:9	Then Saul (which also is called Paul) being full of the holy Ghost, set his eyes on him,
Acts 13:10	And sayde, O full of all subtiltie and all mischiefe, the childe of the deuill, and enemie of all righteousnesse, wilt thou not cease to peruert the straight waies of the Lord?
Acts 13:11	Nowe therefore behold, the hand of the Lord is vpon thee, and thou shalt be blinde, and not see the sunne for a season. And immediately there fel on him a mist and a darknes; and he went about, seeking some to leade him by the hand.
Acts 13:12	Then the Deputie when he sawe what was done, beleeued, and was astonied at the doctrine of the Lord.
Acts 13:13	Nowe when Paul and they that were with him were departed by shippe from Paphus, they came to Perga a citie of Pamphylia: then Iohn departed from them, and returned to Hierusalem.
Acts 13:14	But when they departed from Perga, they came to Antiochia a citie of Pisidia, and went into the Synagogue on ye Sabbath day, and sate downe.
Acts 13:15	And after the lecture of the Law and Prophets, the rulers of ye Synagogue sent vnto them, saying, Ye men and brethren, if ye haue any word of exhortation for the people, say on.
Acts 13:16	Then Paul stoode vp and beckened with the hand, and sayde, Men of Israel, and yee that feare God, hearken.
Acts 13:17	The God of this people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they dwelt in the land of Egypt, and with an high arme brought them out thereof.
Acts 13:18	And about the time of fourtie yeeres, suffered he their maners in the wildernesse.
Acts 13:19	And he destroied seuen nations in the land of Chanaan, and deuided their lad to them by lot.
Acts 13:20	Then afterward he gaue vnto them Iudges about foure hundreth and fiftie yeeres, vnto the time of Samuel the Prophet.
Acts 13:21	So after that, they desired a King, and God gaue vnto them Saul, the sonne of Cis, a man of ye tribe of Beniamin, by the space of fourty yeres.
Acts 13:22	And after he had taken him away, he raised vp Dauid to be their King, of whom he witnessed, saying, I haue found Dauid the sonne of Iesse, a man after mine owne heart, which will doe all things that I will.
Acts 13:23	Of this mans seede hath God according to his promise raised vp to Israel, ye Sauiour Iesus:
Acts 13:24	When Iohn had first preached before his coming the baptisme of repentance to all the people of Israel.
Acts 13:25	And when Iohn had fulfilled his course, he saide, Whom ye thinke that I am, I am not he: but beholde, there commeth one after me, whose shooe of his feete I am not worthy to loose.
Acts 13:26	Yee men and brethren, children of the generation of Abraham, and whosoeuer among you feareth God, to you is the woorde of this saluation sent.
Acts 13:27	For the inhabitants of Hierusalem, and their rulers, because they knewe him not, nor yet the woordes of the Prophets, which are read euery Sabbath day, they haue fulfilled them in condemning him.
Acts 13:28	And though they found no cause of death in him, yet desired they Pilate to kill him.
Acts 13:29	And when they had fulfilled all things that were written of him, they tooke him downe from the tree, and put him in a sepulchre.
Acts 13:30	But God raised him vp from the dead.
Acts 13:31	And hee was seene many dayes of them, which came vp with him from Galile to Hierusalem, which are his witnesses vnto the people.
Acts 13:32	And we declare vnto you, that touching the promise made vnto the fathers,
Acts 13:33	God hath fulfilled it vnto vs their children, in that he raised vp Iesus, euen as it is written in the seconde Psalme, Thou art my Sonne: this day haue I begotten thee.
Acts 13:34	Nowe as concerning that he raised him vp from the dead, no more to returne to corruption, he hath said thus, I wil giue you the holy things of Dauid, which are faithfull.
Acts 13:35	Wherefore hee sayeth also in another place, Thou wilt not suffer thine Holy one to see corruption.
Acts 13:36	Howbeit, Dauid after hee had serued his time by the counsell of God, hee slept, and was laid with his fathers, and sawe corruption.
Acts 13:37	But he whom God raised vp, sawe no corruption.
Acts 13:38	Be it knowen vnto you therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached vnto you the forgiuenesse of sinnes.
Acts 13:39	And from al things, from which ye could not be iustified by the Law of Moses, by him euery one that beleeueth, is iustified.
Acts 13:40	Beware therefore lest that come vpon you, which is spoken of in the Prophets,
Acts 13:41	Behold, ye despisers, and wonder, and vanish away: for I woorke a woorke in your daies, a woorke which yee shall not beleeue, if a man would declare it you.
Acts 13:42	And when they were come out of the Synagogue of the Iewes, the Gentiles besought, that they woulde preach these woordes to them the next Sabbath day.
Acts 13:43	Nowe when the congregation was dissolued, many of the Iewes and Proselytes that feared God, followed Paul and Barnabas, which spake to them, and exhorted them to continue in the grace of God.
Acts 13:44	And ye next Sabbath day came almost the whole citie together, to heare the worde of God.
Acts 13:45	But when the Iewes saw the people, they were full of enuie, and spake against those things, which were spoken of Paul, contrarying them, and railing on them.
Acts 13:46	Then Paul and Barnabas spake boldly, and sayde, It was necessarie that the woorde of God shoulde first haue beene spoken vnto you: but seeing yee put it from you, and iudge your selues vnworthie of euerlasting life, loe, we turne to the Gentiles.
Acts 13:47	For so hath the Lord commanded vs, saying, I haue made thee a light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be the saluation vnto the end of the world.
Acts 13:48	And when the Gentiles heard it, they were glad, and glorified the woorde of the Lord: and as many as were ordeined vnto eternall life, beleeued.
Acts 13:49	Thus the worde of the Lord was published throughout the whole countrey.
Acts 13:50	But the Iewes stirred certaine deuoute and honourable women, and the chiefe men of the citie, and raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them out of their coastes.
Acts 13:51	But they shooke off the dust of their feete against them, and came vnto Iconium.
Acts 13:52	And the disciples were filled with ioy, and with the holy Ghost.
Acts 14:1	And it came to passe in Iconium, that they went both together into the Synagogue of the Iewes, and so spake, that a great multitude both of the Iewes and of the Grecians beleeued.
Acts 14:2	And the vnbeleeuing Iewes stirred vp, and corrupted the mindes of the Gentiles against the brethren.
Acts 14:3	So therefore they abode there a long time, and spake boldly in the Lord, which gaue testimonie vnto the woord of his grace, and caused signes and woders to be done by their hands.
Acts 14:4	But the multitude of the city was deuided: and some were with the Iewes, and some with the Apostles.
Acts 14:5	And when there was an assault made both of the Gentiles, and of the Iewes with their rulers, to doe them violence, and to stone them,
Acts 14:6	They were ware of it, and fled vnto Lystra, and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and vnto the region round about,
Acts 14:7	And there preached the Gospel.
Acts 14:8	Nowe there sate a certaine man at Lystra, impotent in his feete, which was a creeple from his mothers wombe, who had neuer walked.
Acts 14:9	He heard Paul speake: who beholding him, and perceiuing that he had faith to be healed,
Acts 14:10	Said with a loude voyce, Stand vpright on thy feete. And he leaped vp, and walked.
Acts 14:11	Then when the people sawe what Paul had done, they lift vp their voyces, saying in ye speach of Lycaonia, Gods are come downe to vs in the likenesse of men.
Acts 14:12	And they called Barnabas, Iupiter: and Paul, Mercurius, because hee was the chiefe speaker.
Acts 14:13	Then Iupiters priest, which was before their citie, brought bulles with garlands vnto the gates, and would haue sacrificed with the people.
Acts 14:14	But when the Apostles, Barnabas and Paul heard it, they rent their clothes, and ran in among the people, crying,
Acts 14:15	And saying, O men, why doe yee these things? We are euen men subiect to the like passions that yee be, and preache vnto you, that yee shoulde turne from these vaine things vnto the liuing God, which made heauen and earth, and the sea, and all things that in them are:
Acts 14:16	Who in times past suffered all the Gentiles to walke in their owne waies.
Acts 14:17	Neuerthelesse, hee left not him selfe without witnes, in that hee did good and gaue vs raine from heauen, and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with foode, and gladnesse.
Acts 14:18	And speaking these things, scarce appeased they the multitude, that they had not sacrificed vnto them.
Acts 14:19	Then there came certaine Iewes from Antiochia and Iconium, which when they had persuaded the people, stoned Paul, and drewe him out of the citie, supposing he had bene dead.
Acts 14:20	Howbeit, as the disciples stoode rounde about him, hee arose vp, and came into the citie, and the next day hee departed with Barnabas to Derbe.
Acts 14:21	And after they had preached the glad tidings of the Gospel to that citie, and had taught many, they returned to Lystra, and to Iconium, and to Antiochia,
Acts 14:22	Confirming the disciples hearts, and exhorting them to continue in the faith, affirming that we must through many afflictions enter into the kingdome of God.
Acts 14:23	And when they had ordeined them Elders by election in euery Church, and prayed, and fasted, they commended them to the Lord in whome they beleeued.
Acts 14:24	Thus they went throughout Pisidia, and came to Pamphylia.
Acts 14:25	And when they had preached the woorde in Perga, they came downe to Attalia,
Acts 14:26	And thence sailed to Antiochia, from whence they had bene comended vnto the grace of God, to the woorke, which they had fulfilled.
Acts 14:27	And when they were come and had gathered the Church together, they rehearsed all the things that God had done by them, and howe he had opened the doore of faith vnto the Gentiles.
Acts 14:28	So there they abode a long time with the disciples.
Acts 15:1	Then came downe certaine from Iudea, and taught the brethren, saying, Except ye be circumcised after the maner of Moses, ye cannot be saued.
Acts 15:2	And when there was great dissension, and disputation by Paul and Barnabas against them, they ordeyned that Paul and Barnabas, and certaine other of them, should goe vp to Hierusalem vnto the Apostles and Elders about this question.
Acts 15:3	Thus being brought forth by ye Church, they passed through Phenice and Samaria, declaring the conuersion of the Gentiles, and they brought great ioy vnto all the brethren.
Acts 15:4	And when they were come to Hierusalem, they were receiued of the Church, and of the Apostles and Elders, and they declared what things God had done by them.
Acts 15:5	But said they, certaine of the sect of the Pharises, which did beleeue, rose vp, saying, that it was needefull to circumcise them, and to commaund them to keepe the lawe of Moses.
Acts 15:6	Then the Apostles and Elders came together to looke to this matter.
Acts 15:7	And when there had bene great disputation, Peter rose vp, and said vnto them, Ye men and brethren, ye know that a good while ago, among vs God chose out me, that the Gentiles by my mouth should heare the worde of the Gospel, and beleeue.
Acts 15:8	And God which knoweth the heartes, bare them witnesse, in giuing vnto them ye holy Ghost euen as he did vnto vs.
Acts 15:9	And he put no difference betweene vs and them, after that by faith he had purified their heartes.
Acts 15:10	Nowe therefore, why tempt ye God, to lay a yoke on the disciples neckes, which neither our fathers, nor we were able to beare?
Acts 15:11	But we beleeue, through the grace of the Lord Iesus Christ to be saued, euen as they doe.
Acts 15:12	Then all the multitude kept silence, and heard Barnabas and Paul, which told what signes and wonders God had done among the Gentiles by them.
Acts 15:13	And when they helde their peace, Iames answered, saying, Men and brethren, hearken vnto me.
Acts 15:14	Simeon hath declared, howe God first did visite the Gentiles, to take of them a people vnto his Name.
Acts 15:15	And to this agree the woordes of the Prophets, as it is written,
Acts 15:16	After this I will returne, and will builde againe the tabernacle of Dauid, which is fallen downe, and the ruines thereof will I build againe, and I will set it vp,
Acts 15:17	That the residue of men might seeke after the Lord, and all the Gentiles vpon whom my Name is called, saith the Lord which doeth all these things.
Acts 15:18	From the beginning of the worlde, God knoweth all his workes.
Acts 15:19	Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them of the Gentiles that are turned to God,
Acts 15:20	But that we send vnto them, that they abstaine themselues from filthinesse of idoles, and fornication, and that that is strangled, and from blood.
Acts 15:21	For Moses of olde time hath in euery citie them that preache him, seeing he is read in the Synagogues euery Sabbath day.
Acts 15:22	Then it seemed good to the Apostles and Elders with the whole Church, to sende chosen men of their owne companie to Antiochia with Paul and Barnabas: to wit, Iudas whose surname was Barsabas and Silas, which were chiefe men among the brethren,
Acts 15:23	And wrote letters by them after this maner, THE APOSTLES, and the Elders, and the brethren, vnto the brethren which are of the Gentiles in Antiochia, and in Syria, and in Cilicia, send greeting.
Acts 15:24	Forasmuch as we haue heard, that certaine which went out from vs, haue troubled you with wordes, and cumbred your mindes, saying, Ye must be circumcised and keepe the Lawe: to whom we gaue no such commandement,
Acts 15:25	It seemed therefore good to vs, when we were come together with one accord, to send chosen men vnto you, with our beloued Barnabas and Paul,
Acts 15:26	Men that haue giuen vp their liues for the Name of our Lord Iesus Christ.
Acts 15:27	We haue therefore sent Iudas and Silas, which shall also tell you ye same things by mouth.
Acts 15:28	For it seemed good to the holy Ghost, and to vs, to lay no more burden vpon you, then these necessary things,
Acts 15:29	That is, that ye abstaine from things offered to idoles, and blood, and that that is strangled, and from fornication: from which if ye keepe your selues, ye shall doe well. Fare ye well.
Acts 15:30	Nowe when they were departed, they came to Antiochia, and after that they had assembled the multitude, they deliuered the Epistle.
Acts 15:31	And when they had read it, they reioyced for the consolation.
Acts 15:32	And Iudas and Silas being Prophets, exhorted the brethren with many wordes, and strengthened them.
Acts 15:33	And after they had taried there a space, they were let goe in peace of the brethren vnto the Apostles.
Acts 15:34	Notwithstanding Silas thought good to abide there still.
Acts 15:35	Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antiochia, teaching and preaching with many other, the worde of the Lord.
Acts 15:36	But after certaine dayes, Paul said vnto Barnabas, Let vs returne, and visite our brethren in euery citie, where we haue preached the worde of the Lord, and see how they doe.
Acts 15:37	And Barnabas counselled to take with them Iohn, called Marke.
Acts 15:38	But Paul thought it not meete to take him vnto their companie, which departed from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the worke.
Acts 15:39	Then were they so stirred, that they departed asunder one from the other, so that Barnabas tooke Marke, and sailed vnto Cyprus.
Acts 15:40	And Paul chose Silas and departed, being commended of the brethren vnto the grace of God.
Acts 15:41	And he went through Syria and Cilicia, stablishing the Churches.
Acts 16:1	Then came he to Derbe and to Lystra: and beholde, a certaine disciple was there named Timotheus, a womans sonne, which was a Iewesse and beleeued, but his father was a Grecian,
Acts 16:2	Of whom the brethren which were at Lystra and Iconium, reported well.
Acts 16:3	Therefore Paul would that he should go forth with him, and tooke and circumcised him, because of ye Iewes, which were in those quarters: for they knewe all, that his father was a Grecian.
Acts 16:4	And as they went through the cities, they deliuered them the decrees to keepe, ordeined of the Apostles and Elders, which were at Hierusalem.
Acts 16:5	And so were the Churches stablished in the faith, and encreased in number daily.
Acts 16:6	Nowe when they had gone throughout Phrygia, and the region of Galatia, they were forbidden of the holy Ghost to preache the worde in Asia.
Acts 16:7	Then came they to Mysia, and sought to go into Bithynia: but the Spirit suffered them not.
Acts 16:8	Therefore they passed through Mysia, and came downe to Troas,
Acts 16:9	Where a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stoode a man of Macedonia, and prayed him, saying, Come into Macedonia, and helpe vs.
Acts 16:10	And after he had seene the vision, immediatly we prepared to goe into Macedonia, being assured that the Lord had called vs to preache the Gospel vnto them.
Acts 16:11	Then went we forth from Troas, and with a straight course came to Samothracia, and the next day to Neapolis,
Acts 16:12	And from thence to Philippi, which is the chiefe citie in ye partes of Macedonia, and whose inhabitants came from Rome to dwell there, and we were in that citie abiding certaine dayes.
Acts 16:13	And on the Sabbath day, we went out of the citie, besides a Riuer, where they were wont to pray: and we sate downe, and spake vnto the women, which were come together.
Acts 16:14	And a certaine woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the citie of the Thyatirians, which worshipped God, heard vs: whose heart the Lord opened, that she attended vnto the things, which Paul spake.
Acts 16:15	And when she was baptized, and her houshold, she besought vs, saying, If ye haue iudged me to be faithfull to ye Lord, come into mine house, and abide there: and she constrained vs.
Acts 16:16	And it came to passe that as we went to prayer, a certaine maide hauing a spirit of diuination, mette vs, which gate her masters much vantage with diuining.
Acts 16:17	She followed Paul and vs, and cryed, saying, These men are the seruants of the most high God, which shewe vnto you the way of saluation.
Acts 16:18	And this did she many dayes: but Paul being grieued, turned about, and said to the spirit, I commaund thee in the Name of Iesus Christ, that thou come out of her. And he came out the same houre.
Acts 16:19	Nowe when her masters sawe that the hope of their gaine was gone, they caught Paul and Silas, and drewe them into the market place vnto the Magistrates,
Acts 16:20	And brought them to the gouernours, saying, These men which are Iewes, trouble our citie,
Acts 16:21	And preache ordinances, which are not lawfull for vs to receiue, neither to obserue, seeing we are Romanes.
Acts 16:22	The people also rose vp together against them, and the gouernours rent their clothes, and commanded them to be beaten with roddes.
Acts 16:23	And when they had beaten them sore, they cast them into prison, commaunding the Iayler to keepe them surely.
Acts 16:24	Who hauing receiued such commandement, cast them into the inner prison, and made their feete fast in the stockes.
Acts 16:25	Nowe at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sung Psalmes vnto God: and the prisoners heard them.
Acts 16:26	And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundation of the prison was shaken: and by and by all the doores opened, and euery mans bands were loosed.
Acts 16:27	Then the keeper of the prison waked out of his sleepe, and when he sawe the prison doores open, he drewe out his sword and would haue killed himselfe, supposing the prisoners had bin fled.
Acts 16:28	But Paul cryed with a loude voyce, saying, Doe thy selfe no harme: for we are all here.
Acts 16:29	Then he called for a light, and leaped in, and came trembling, and fell downe before Paul and Silas,
Acts 16:30	And brought them out, and said, Syrs, what must I doe to be saued?
Acts 16:31	And they saide, Beleeue in the Lord Iesus Christ, and thou shalt be saued, and thine houshold.
Acts 16:32	And they preached vnto him the worde of the Lord, and to all that were in the house.
Acts 16:33	Afterwarde he tooke them the same houre of the night, and washed their stripes, and was baptized with all that belonged vnto him, straigthway.
Acts 16:34	And when he had brought them into his house, he set meate before them, and reioyced that he with all his houshold beleeued in God.
Acts 16:35	And when it was day, the gouernours sent the sergeants, saying, Let those men goe.
Acts 16:36	Then the keeper of the prison tolde these woordes vnto Paul, saying, The gouerness haue sent to loose you: nowe therefore get you hence, and goe in peace.
Acts 16:37	Then sayde Paul vnto them, After that they haue beaten vs openly vncodemned, which are Romanes, they haue cast vs into prison, and nowe would they put vs out priuily? nay verely: but let them come and bring vs out.
Acts 16:38	And the sergeants tolde these woordes vnto the gouernours, who feared whe they heard that they were Romanes.
Acts 16:39	Then came they and praied them, and brought them out, and desired them to depart out of the citie.
Acts 16:40	And they went out of the prison, and entred into the house of Lydia: and when they had seene the brethren, they comforted them, and departed.
Acts 17:1	Nowe as they passed through Amphipolis, and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where was a Synagogue of the Iewes.
Acts 17:2	And Paul, as his maner was, went in vnto them, and three Sabbath daies disputed with them by the Scriptures,
Acts 17:3	Opening, and alleadging that Christ must haue suffered, and risen againe from the dead: and this is Iesus Christ, whom, said he, I preach to you.
Acts 17:4	And some of them beleeued, and ioyned in companie with Paul and Silas: also of the Grecians that feared God a great multitude, and of the chiefe women not a fewe.
Acts 17:5	But the Iewes which beleeued not, mooued with enuie, tooke vnto them certaine vagabonds and wicked fellowes, and whe they had assembled the multitude, they made a tumult in the citie, and made assault against the house of Iason, and sought to bring them out to the people.
Acts 17:6	But when they found them not, they drew Iason and certaine brethren vnto the heads of the citie, crying, These are they which haue subuerted the state of the world, and here they are,
Acts 17:7	Whom Iason hath receiued, and these all doe against the decrees of Cesar, saying that there is another King, one Iesus.
Acts 17:8	Then they troubled the people, and the heads of the citie, when they heard these things.
Acts 17:9	Notwithstanding when they had receiued sufficient assurance of Iason and of the other, they let them goe.
Acts 17:10	And the brethren immediatly sent away Paul and Silas by night vnto Berea, which when they were come thither, entred into ye Synagogue of the Iewes.
Acts 17:11	These were also more noble men then they which were at Thessalonica, which receiued the woorde with all readinesse, and searched the Scriptures daily, whether those things were so.
Acts 17:12	Therefore many of them beleeued, and of honest women, which were Grecians, and men not a fewe.
Acts 17:13	But when the Iewes of Thessalonica knewe, that the woord of God was also preached of Paul at Berea, they came thither also, and mooued the people.
Acts 17:14	But by and by the brethren sent away Paul to goe as it were to the sea: but Silas and Timotheus abode there still.
Acts 17:15	And they that did conduct Paul, brought him vnto Athens: and when they had receiued a commandement vnto Silas and Timotheus that they shoulde come to him at once, they departed.
Acts 17:16	Nowe while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirite was stirred in him, when hee sawe the citie subiect to idolatrie.
Acts 17:17	Therefore he disputed in the Synagogue with the Iewes, and with them that were religious, and in the market daily with whomesoeuer he met.
Acts 17:18	Then certaine Philosophers of the Epicures, and of the Stoickes, disputed with him, and some sayde, What will this babler say? Others sayde, He seemeth to be a setter forth of straunge gods (because hee preached vnto them Iesus, and the resurrection.)
Acts 17:19	And they tooke him, and brought him into Mars streete, saying, May we not know, what this newe doctrine, whereof thou speakest, is?
Acts 17:20	For thou bringest certaine strange thinges vnto our eares: we woulde knowe therefore, what these things meane.
Acts 17:21	For all the Athenians, and strangers which dwelt there, gaue them selues to nothing els, but either to tell, or to heare some newes.
Acts 17:22	Then Paul stoode in the mids of Mars streete, and sayde, Yee men of Athens, I perceiue that in all things yee are too superstitious.
Acts 17:23	For as I passed by, and behelde your deuotions, I founde an altar wherein was written, VNTO THE VNKNOWEN GOD. Whom ye then ignorantly worship, him shewe I vnto you.
Acts 17:24	God that made the world, and all things that are therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaue and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands,
Acts 17:25	Neither is worshipped with mens handes, as though he needed any thing, seeing hee giueth to all life and breath and all things,
Acts 17:26	And hath made of one blood all mankinde, to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath assigned the seasons which were ordeined before, and the boundes of their habitation,
Acts 17:27	That they shoulde seeke the Lord, if so be they might haue groped after him, and founde him though doubtlesse he be not farre from euery one of vs.
Acts 17:28	For in him we liue, and mooue, and haue our being, as also certaine of your owne Poets haue sayd, for we are also his generation.
Acts 17:29	Forasmuch then, as we are the generation of God, we ought not to thinke that ye Godhead is like vnto gold, or siluer, or stone grauen by arte and the inuention of man.
Acts 17:30	And the time of this ignorance God regarded not: but nowe hee admonisheth all men euery where to repent,
Acts 17:31	Because hee hath appoynted a day in the which he wil iudge the world in righteousnes, by that man whome hee hath appoynted, whereof he hath giuen an assurance to all men, in that hee hath raised him from the dead.
Acts 17:32	Now when they heard of the resurrection from the dead, some mocked, and other sayde, We will heare thee againe of this thing.
Acts 17:33	And so Paul departed from among them.
Acts 17:34	Howbeit certaine men claue vnto Paul, and beleeued: among whome was also Denys Areopagita, and a woman named Damaris, and other with them.
Acts 18:1	After these thinges, Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinthus,
Acts 18:2	And found a certaine Iewe named Aquila, borne in Pontus, lately come from Italie, and his wife Priscilla (because that Claudius had commanded all Iewes to depart from Rome) and he came vnto them.
Acts 18:3	And because hee was of the same crafte, he abode with them and wrought (for their crafte was to make tentes.)
Acts 18:4	And he disputed in the Synagogue euery Sabbath day, and exhorted the Iewes, and the Grecians.
Acts 18:5	Now when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul, forced in spirit, testified to the Iewes that Iesus was the Christ.
Acts 18:6	And when they resisted and blasphemed, he shooke his raiment, and saide vnto them, Your blood be vpon your owne head: I am cleane: from henceforth will I goe vnto the Gentiles.
Acts 18:7	So he departed thence, and entred into a certaine mans house, named Iustus, a worshipper of God, whose house ioyned hard to the Synagogue.
Acts 18:8	And Crispus the chiefe ruler of the Synagogue, beleeued in the Lord with all his housholde: and many of the Corinthians hearing it, beleeued and were baptized.
Acts 18:9	Then saide the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Feare not, but speake, and holde not thy peace.
Acts 18:10	For I am with thee, and no man shall lay handes on thee to hurt thee: for I haue much people in this citie.
Acts 18:11	So he continued there a yeere and six moneths, and taught ye worde of God among them.
Acts 18:12	Now when Gallio was Deputie of Achaia, the Iewes arose with one accorde against Paul, and brought him to the iudgement seate,
Acts 18:13	Saying, This fellow persuadeth me to worship God otherwise then the Lawe appointeth.
Acts 18:14	And as Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio saide vnto the Iewes, If it were a matter of wrong, or an euill deede, O ye Iewes, I would according to reason maintaine you.
Acts 18:15	But if it bee a question of woordes, and names, and of your Lawe, looke yee to it your selues: for I will be no iudge of those things.
Acts 18:16	And hee draue them from the iudgement seate.
Acts 18:17	Then tooke al the Grecians Sosthenes the chiefe ruler of the Synagogue, and beat him before the iudgement seat: but Gallio cared nothing for those things.
Acts 18:18	But when Paul had taried there yet a good while, hee tooke leaue of the brethren, and sailed into Syria (and with him Priscilla and Aquila) after that he had shorne his head in Cenchrea: for he had a vowe.
Acts 18:19	Then hee came to Ephesus, and left them there: but hee entred into the Synagogue and disputed with the Iewes.
Acts 18:20	Who desired him to tarie a longer time with them: but he would not consent,
Acts 18:21	But bade the farewel, saying, I must needes keepe this feast that commeth, in Hierusalem: but I will returne againe vnto you, if God will. So he sailed from Ephesus.
Acts 18:22	And when hee came downe to Cesarea, he went vp to Hierusalem: and when he had saluted the Church, he went downe vnto Antiochia.
Acts 18:23	Nowe when he had taried there a while, he departed, and went thorowe the countrey of Galatia and Phrygia by order, strengthening all the disciples.
Acts 18:24	And a certaine Iewe named Apollos, borne at Alexandria, came to Ephesus, an eloquent man, and mightie in the Scriptures.
Acts 18:25	The same was instructed in the way of the Lord, and hee spake feruently in the Spirite, and taught diligently the things of the Lord, and knew but the baptisme of Iohn onely.
Acts 18:26	And he began to speake boldely in the Synagogue. Whom when Aquila and Priscilla had heard, they tooke him vnto them, and expounded vnto him the way of God more perfectly.
Acts 18:27	And when hee was minded to goe into Achaia, the brethren exhorting him, wrote to the disciples to receiue him: and after hee was come thither, he holpe them much which had beleeued through grace.
Acts 18:28	For mightily hee confuted publikely the Iewes, with great vehemencie, shewing by the Scriptures, that Iesus was that Christ.
Acts 19:1	And it came to passe, while Apollos was at Corinthus, that Paul when he passed thorow the vpper coasts, came to Ephesus, and found certaine disciples,
Acts 19:2	And saide vnto them, Haue ye receiued the holy Ghost since ye beleeued? And they saide vnto him, Wee haue not so much as heard whether there be an holy Ghost.
Acts 19:3	And he said vnto them, Vnto what were ye then baptized? And they saide, Vnto Iohns baptisme.
Acts 19:4	Then saide Paul, Iohn verely baptized with the baptisme of repentance, saying vnto the people, that they shoulde beleeue in him, which should come after him, that is, in Christ Iesus.
Acts 19:5	And when they heard it, they were baptized in the Name of the Lord Iesus.
Acts 19:6	So Paul layde his handes vpon them, and the holy Ghost came on them, and they spake the tongues, and prophecied.
Acts 19:7	And all the men were about twelue.
Acts 19:8	Moreouer he went into the Synagogue, and spake boldly for the space of three moneths, disputing and exhorting to the things that appertaine to the kingdome of God.
Acts 19:9	But when certaine were hardened, and disobeyed, speaking euill of the way of God before the multitude, hee departed from them, and separated the disciples, and disputed dayly in the schoole of one Tyrannus.
Acts 19:10	And this was done by the space of two yeeres, so that all they which dwelt in Asia, heard the word of ye Lord Iesus, both Iewes and Grecians.
Acts 19:11	And God wrought no small miracles by the handes of Paul,
Acts 19:12	So that from his body were brought vnto the sicke, kerchefs or handkerchefs, and the diseases departed from them, and the euill spirits went out of them.
Acts 19:13	Then certaine of the vagabond Iewes, exorcistes, tooke in hand to name ouer them which had euil spirits, the Name of the Lord Iesus, saying, We adiure you by Iesus, whom Paul preacheth.
Acts 19:14	(And there were certaine sonnes of Sceua a Iewe, the Priest, about seuen which did this)
Acts 19:15	And the euil spirit answered, and said, Iesus I acknowledge, and Paul I know: but who are ye?
Acts 19:16	And the man in whome the euil spirit was, ranne on them, and ouercame them, and preuailed against them, so that they fledde out of that house, naked, and wounded.
Acts 19:17	And this was knowen to all the Iewes and Grecians also, which dwelt at Ephesus, and feare came on them all, and the Name of the Lord Iesus was magnified,
Acts 19:18	And many that beleeued, came and confessed, and shewed their workes.
Acts 19:19	Many also of them which vsed curious artes, brought their bookes, and burned them before all men: and they counted the price of them, and found it fiftie thousand pieces of siluer.
Acts 19:20	So the worde of God grewe mightily, and preuailed.
Acts 19:21	Nowe when these things were accomplished, Paul purposed by the Spirite to passe through Macedonia and Achaia, and to goe to Hierusalem, saying, After I haue bene there, I must also see Rome.
Acts 19:22	So sent hee into Macedonia two of them that ministred vnto him, Timotheus and Erastus, but he remained in Asia for a season.
Acts 19:23	And the same time there arose no small trouble about that way.
Acts 19:24	For a certaine man named Demetrius a siluersmith, which made siluer temples of Diana, brought great gaines vnto the craftesmen,
Acts 19:25	Whom he called together, with the workemen of like things, and saide, Syrs, ye knowe that by this craft we haue our goods:
Acts 19:26	Moreouer ye see and heare, that not alone at Ephesus, but almost throughout all Asia this Paul hath perswaded, and turned away much people, saying, That they be not gods which are made with handes.
Acts 19:27	So that not onely this thing is dangerous vnto vs, that this our portion shall be reproued, but also that the temple of the great goddesse Diana should be nothing esteemed, and that it would come to passe that her magnificence, which all Asia and the world worshippeth, should be destroyed.
Acts 19:28	Now when they heard it, they were full of wrath, and cried out, saying, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.
Acts 19:29	And the whole citie was full of confusion, and they rushed into the common place with one assent, and caught Gaius, and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, and Pauls companions of his iourney.
Acts 19:30	And when Paul would haue entred in vnto the people, the disciples suffred him not.
Acts 19:31	Certaine also of the chiefe of Asia which were his friendes, sent vnto him, desiring him that hee woulde not present him selfe in the Common place.
Acts 19:32	Some therefore cried one thing, and some another: for the assemblie was out of order, and the more part knewe not wherefore they were come together.
Acts 19:33	And some of the company drew foorth Alexander, the Iewes thrusting him forwards. Alexander then beckened with the hande, and woulde haue excused the matter to the people.
Acts 19:34	But when they knew that he was a Iewe, there arose a shoute almost for the space of two houres, of all men crying, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.
Acts 19:35	Then the towne clearke when hee had stayed the people, saide, Ye men of Ephesus, what man is it that knoweth not howe that the citie of the Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddesse Diana, and of the image, which came downe from Iupiter?
Acts 19:36	Seeing then that no man can speake against these things, ye ought to be appeased, and to doe nothing rashly.
Acts 19:37	For yee haue brought hither these men, which haue neither committed sacrilege, neither doe blaspheme your goddesse.
Acts 19:38	Wherefore, if Demetrius and the craftes men which are with him, haue a matter against any man, the lawe is open, and there are Deputies: let them accuse one another.
Acts 19:39	But if ye inquire any thing cocerning other matters, it may be determined in a lawful assembly.
Acts 19:40	For we are euen in ieopardie to be accused of this dayes sedition, for as much as there is no cause, whereby we may giue a reason of this concourse of people.
Acts 19:41	And when he had thus spoken, hee let the assembly depart.
Acts 20:1	Nowe after the tumult was appeased, Paul called the disciples vnto him, and embraced them, and departed to goe into Macedonia.
Acts 20:2	And when hee had gone through those parts, and had exhorted them with many words, he came into Grecia.
Acts 20:3	And hauing taried there three moneths, because the Iewes layde waite for him, as hee was about to saile into Syria, hee purposed to returne through Macedonia.
Acts 20:4	And there accompanied him into Asia, Sopater of Berea, and of them of Thessalonica, Aristarchus, and Secundus, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timotheus, and of them of Asia, Tychicus, and Trophimus.
Acts 20:5	These went before, and taried vs at Troas.
Acts 20:6	And we sailed forth from Philippi, after the dayes of vnleauened bread, and came vnto them to Troas in fiue dayes, where we abode seuen dayes.
Acts 20:7	And the first day of the weeke, the disciples being come together to breake bread, Paul preached vnto them, ready to depart on the morrow, and continued the preaching vnto midnight.
Acts 20:8	And there were many lightes in an vpper chamber, where they were gathered together.
Acts 20:9	And there sate in a windowe a certaine yong man, named Eutychus, fallen into a dead sleepe: and as Paul was long preaching, hee ouercome with sleepe, fell downe from the thirde loft, and was taken vp dead.
Acts 20:10	But Paul went downe, and layde himselfe vpon him, and embraced him, saying, Trouble not your selues: for his life is in him.
Acts 20:11	Then when Paul was come vp againe, and had broken bread, and eaten, hauing spoken a long while till the dawning of the day, hee so departed.
Acts 20:12	And they brought the boye aliue, and they were not a litle comforted.
Acts 20:13	Then we went before to shippe, and sailed vnto the citie Assos, that wee might receiue Paul there: for so had hee appointed, and would himselfe goe afoote.
Acts 20:14	Now when he was come vnto vs to Assos, and we had receiued him, we came to Mitylenes.
Acts 20:15	And wee sailed thence, and came the next day ouer against Chios, and the next day we arriued at Samos, and tarried at Trogyllium: the next day we came to Miletum.
Acts 20:16	For Paul had determined to saile by Ephesus, because hee woulde not spend the time in Asia: for he hasted to be, if hee could possible, at Hierusalem, at the day of Pentecost.
Acts 20:17	Wherefore from Miletum, hee sent to Ephesus, and called the Elders of the Church.
Acts 20:18	Who when they were come to him, hee said vnto them, Ye know from the first day that I came into Asia, after what maner I haue bene with you at all seasons,
Acts 20:19	Seruing the Lord with all modestie, and with many teares, and tentations, which came vnto me by the layings awaite of the Iewes,
Acts 20:20	And how I kept backe nothing that was profitable, but haue shewed you, and taught you openly and throughout euery house,
Acts 20:21	Witnessing both to the Iewes, and to the Grecians the repentance towarde God, and faith toward our Lord Iesus Christ.
Acts 20:22	And nowe beholde, I goe bound in the Spirit vnto Hierusalem, and know not what things shall come vnto me there,
Acts 20:23	Saue that ye holy Ghost witnesseth in euery citie, saying, that bondes and afflictions abide me.
Acts 20:24	But I passe not at all, neither is my life deare vnto my selfe, so that I may fulfill my course with ioye, and the ministration which I haue receiued of the Lord Iesus, to testifie the Gospell of the grace of God.
Acts 20:25	And now behold, I know that henceforth ye all, through whome I haue gone preaching the kingdome of God, shall see my face no more.
Acts 20:26	Wherefore I take you to recorde this day, that I am pure from the blood of all men.
Acts 20:27	For I haue kept nothing backe, but haue shewed you all the counsell of God.
Acts 20:28	Take heede therefore vnto your selues, and to all the flocke, whereof the holy Ghost hath made you Ouerseers, to feede the Church of God, which hee hath purchased with that his owne blood.
Acts 20:29	For I knowe this, that after my departing shall grieuous wolues enter in among you, not sparing the flocke.
Acts 20:30	Moreouer of your owne selues shall men arise speaking peruerse thinges, to drawe disciples after them.
Acts 20:31	Therefore watche, and remember, that by the space of three yeres I ceased not to warne euery one, both night and day with teares.
Acts 20:32	And nowe brethren, I commend you to God, and to the worde of his grace, which is able to build further, and to giue you an inheritance, among all them, which are sanctified.
Acts 20:33	I haue coueted no mans siluer, nor gold, nor apparell.
Acts 20:34	Yea, ye knowe, that these handes haue ministred vnto my necessities, and to them that were with me.
Acts 20:35	I haue shewed you all things, howe that so labouring, ye ought to support the weake, and to remember the wordes of the Lord Iesus, howe that hee saide, It is a blessed thing to giue, rather then to receiue.
Acts 20:36	And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled downe, and prayed with them all.
Acts 20:37	Then they wept all abundantly, and fell on Pauls necke, and kissed him,
Acts 20:38	Being chiefly sorie for the words which he spake, That they should see his face no more. And they accompanied him vnto the shippe.
Acts 21:1	And as we launched forth, and were departed from them, we came with a straight course vnto Coos, and the day following vnto the Rhodes, and from thence vnto Patara.
Acts 21:2	And we found a ship that went ouer vnto Phenice, and went aboard, and set forth.
Acts 21:3	And whe we had discouered Cyprus, we left it on the left hand, and sailed toward Syria, and arriued at Tyrus: for there the ship vnladed ye burden.
Acts 21:4	And when we had found disciples, we taried there seuen dayes. And they told Paul through the Spirit, that he should not goe vp to Hierusalem.
Acts 21:5	But when the dayes were ended, we departed and went our way, and they all accompanied vs with their wiues and children, euen out of the citie: and we kneeling downe on the shore, prayed.
Acts 21:6	Then when we had embraced one another, we tooke ship, and they returned home.
Acts 21:7	And when we had ended the course from Tyrus, we arriued at Ptolemais, and saluted the brethren, and abode with them one day.
Acts 21:8	And the next day, Paul and we that were with him, departed, and came vnto Cesarea: and we entred into the house of Philippe the Euangelist, which was one of the seuen Deacons, and abode with him.
Acts 21:9	Now he had foure daughters virgins, which did prophecie.
Acts 21:10	And as we taried there many dayes, there came a certaine Prophet from Iudea, named Agabus.
Acts 21:11	And when he was come vnto vs, he tooke Pauls girdle, and bound his owne hands and feete, and sayd, Thus sayth the holy Ghost, So shall the Iewes at Hierusalem binde the man that oweth this girdle, and shall deliuer him into the hands of the Gentiles.
Acts 21:12	And when we had heard these things, both we and other of the same place besought him that he would not go vp to Hierusalem.
Acts 21:13	Then Paul answered, and sayd, What doe ye weeping and breaking mine heart? For I am ready not to be bound onely, but also to die at Hierusalem for the Name of the Lord Iesus.
Acts 21:14	So when he would not be perswaded, we ceased, saying, The will of the Lord be done.
Acts 21:15	And after those dayes we trussed vp our fardels, and went vp to Hierusalem.
Acts 21:16	There went with vs also certaine of the disciples of Cesarea, and brought with them one Mnason of Cyprus, an olde disciple, with whome we should lodge.
Acts 21:17	And when we were come to Hierusalem, the brethren receiued vs gladly.
Acts 21:18	And the next day Paul went in with vs vnto Iames: and all the Elders were there assembled.
Acts 21:19	And when he had embraced them, hee tolde by order all things, that God had wrought among the Gentiles by his ministration.
Acts 21:20	So when they heard it, they glorified God, and sayd vnto him, Thou seest, brother, how many thousand Iewes there are which beleeue, and they are all zealous of the Law:
Acts 21:21	Now they are informed of thee, that thou teachest all the Iewes, which are among the Gentiles, to forsake Moses, and sayest that they ought not to circumcise their sonnes, neither to liue after the customes.
Acts 21:22	What is then to be done? the multitude must needes come together: for they shall heare that thou art come.
Acts 21:23	Doe therefore this that we say to thee. We haue foure men, which haue made a vowe,
Acts 21:24	Them take, and purifie thy selfe with them, and contribute with them, that they may shaue their heads: and all shall knowe, that those things, whereof they haue bene informed concerning thee, are nothing, but that thou thy selfe also walkest and keepest the Lawe.
Acts 21:25	For as touching ye Gentiles, which beleeue, we haue written, and determined that they obserue no such thing, but that they keepe themselues from things offred to idoles, and from blood, and from that that is strangled, and from fornication.
Acts 21:26	Then Paul tooke the men, and the next day was purified with them, and entred into the Temple, declaring the accomplishment of the dayes of the purification, vntill that an offering should be offered for euery one of them.
Acts 21:27	And when the seuen dayes were almost ended, the Iewes which were of Asia (when they sawe him in the Temple) moued all the people, and laide hands on him,
Acts 21:28	Crying, Men of Israel, helpe: this is the man that teacheth all men euery where against the people, and the Lawe, and this place: moreouer, he hath brought Grecians into the Temple, and hath polluted this holy place.
Acts 21:29	For they had seene before Trophimus an Ephesian with him in the citie, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the Temple.
Acts 21:30	Then all the citie was moued, and the people ran together: and they tooke Paul and drewe him out of the Temple, and forth with the doores were shut.
Acts 21:31	But as they went about to kill him, tydings came vnto the chiefe captaine of the band, that all Hierusalem was on an vproare.
Acts 21:32	Who immediately tooke souldiers and Centurions, and ran downe vnto them: and when they sawe the chiefe Captaine and the souldiers, they left beating of Paul.
Acts 21:33	Then the chiefe Captaine came neere and tooke him, and commanded him to be bound with two chaines, and demaunded who he was, and what he had done.
Acts 21:34	And one cryed this, another that, among the people. So when he could not know the certeintie for the tumult, he commanded him to be led into the castell.
Acts 21:35	And when hee came vnto the grieces, it was so that he was borne of the souldiers, for the violence of the people.
Acts 21:36	For the multitude of the people followed after, crying, Away with him.
Acts 21:37	And as Paul should haue bene led into the castell, he sayd vnto the chiefe Captaine, May I speake vnto thee? Who sayd, Canst thou speake Greeke?
Acts 21:38	Art not thou the Egyptian who before these dayes raised a sedition, and led out into the wildernesse foure thousande men that were murtherers?
Acts 21:39	Then Paul sayde, Doubtlesse, I am a man which am a Iewe, and citizen of Tarsus, a famous citie of Cilicia, and I beseech thee, suffer mee to speake vnto the people.
Acts 21:40	And when he had giuen him licence, Paul stoode on the grieces, and beckened with the hand vnto the people: and when there was made great silence, hee spake vnto them in the Hebrewe tongue, saying,
Acts 22:1	Ye men, brethren and Fathers, heare my defence nowe towards you.
Acts 22:2	(And when they heard that he spake in the Hebrewe tongue to them, they kept the more silence, and he sayd)
Acts 22:3	I am verely a man, which am a Iew, borne in Tarsus in Cilicia, but brought vp in this citie at the feete of Gamaliel, and instructed according to the perfect maner of the Lawe of the Fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye all are this day.
Acts 22:4	And I persecuted this way vnto the death, binding and deliuering into prison both men and women.
Acts 22:5	As also ye chiefe Priest doeth beare me witnes, and al the company of the Elders: of whom also I receiued letters vnto the brethren, and went to Damascus to bring them which were there, bound vnto Hierusalem, that they might be punished.
Acts 22:6	And so it was, as I iourneyed and was come neere vnto Damascus about noone, that suddenly there shone from heauen a great light round about me.
Acts 22:7	So I fell vnto the earth, and heard a voyce, saying vnto me, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou mee?
Acts 22:8	Then I answered, Who art thou, Lord? And he said to me, I am Iesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest.
Acts 22:9	Moreouer they that were with me, sawe in deede a light and were afraide: but they heard not the voyce of him that spake vnto me.
Acts 22:10	Then I sayd, What shall I doe, Lord? And the Lord sayde vnto me, Arise, and goe into Damascus: and there it shall be tolde thee of all things, which are appointed for thee to doe.
Acts 22:11	So when I could not see for the glory of that light, I was led by the hand of them that were with me, and came into Damascus.
Acts 22:12	And one Ananias a godly man, as perteining to the Lawe, hauing good report of all the Iewes which dwelt there,
Acts 22:13	Came vnto me, and stoode, and sayd vnto me, Brother Saul, receiue thy sight: and that same houre I looked vpon him.
Acts 22:14	And he sayd, The God of our fathers hath appointed thee, that thou shouldest knowe his wil, and shouldest see that Iust one, and shouldest heare the voyce of his mouth.
Acts 22:15	For thou shalt be his witnes vnto all men, of the things which thou hast seene and heard.
Acts 22:16	Now therefore why tariest thou? Arise, and be baptized, and wash away thy sinnes, in calling on the Name of the Lord.
Acts 22:17	And it came to passe, that when I was come againe to Hierusalem, and prayed in the Temple, I was in a traunce,
Acts 22:18	And saw him saying vnto me, Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Hierusalem: for they will not receiue thy witnes concerning me.
Acts 22:19	Then I sayd, Lord, they know that I prisoned, and beat in euery Synagogue them that beleeued in thee.
Acts 22:20	And when the blood of thy martyr Steuen was shed, I also stood by, and consented vnto his death, and kept the clothes of them that slew him.
Acts 22:21	Then he sayd vnto me, Depart: for I will send thee farre hence vnto the Gentiles.
Acts 22:22	And they heard him vnto this worde, but then they lift vp their voyces, and sayd, Away with such a fellow from the earth: for it is not meete that he should liue.
Acts 22:23	And as they cried and cast off their clothes, and threw dust into the aire,
Acts 22:24	The chiefe captaine commanded him to be led into the castle, and bade that he should be scourged, and examined, that he might knowe wherefore they cryed so on him.
Acts 22:25	And as they bound him with thongs, Paul sayd vnto the Centurion that stood by, Is it lawfull for you to scourge one that is a Romane, and not condemned?
Acts 22:26	Nowe when the Centurion heard it, hee went, and tolde the chiefe captaine, saying, Take heede what thou doest: for this man is a Romane.
Acts 22:27	Then the chiefe captaine came, and sayd to him, Tel me, art thou a Romane? And he said, Yea.
Acts 22:28	And the chiefe captaine answered, With a great summe obtained I this freedome. Then Paul sayd, But I was so borne.
Acts 22:29	Then straightway they departed from him, which should haue examined him: and the chiefe captaine also was afrayd, after he knewe that hee was a Romane, and that he had bound him.
Acts 22:30	On the next day, because hee would haue knowen the certaintie wherefore he was accused of the Iewes, he loosed him from his bonds, and commanded the hie Priests and all their Councill to come together: and he brought Paul, and set him before them.
Acts 23:1	And Paul behelde earnestly the Councill, and sayde, Men and brethren, I haue in all good conscience serued God vntill this day.
Acts 23:2	Then the hie Priest Ananias commanded them that stood by, to smite him on the mouth.
Acts 23:3	Then sayd Paul to him, God will smite thee, thou whited wall: for thou sittest to iudge me according to the Lawe, and transgressing the Lawe, commaundest thou me to be smitten?
Acts 23:4	And they that stood by, sayd, Reuilest thou Gods hie Priest?
Acts 23:5	Then sayd Paul, I knewe not, brethren, that he was the hie Priest: for it is written, Thou shalt not speake euill of the ruler of thy people.
Acts 23:6	But when Paul perceiued that the one part were of the Sadduces, and the other of the Pharises, hee cried in the Council, Men and brethren, I am a Pharise, the sonne of a Pharise: I am accused of the hope and resurrection of the dead.
Acts 23:7	And when hee had saide this, there was a dissension betweene the Pharises and the Sadduces, so that the multitude was deuided.
Acts 23:8	For the Sadduces say that there is no resurrection, neither Angel, nor spirit: but the Pharises confesse both.
Acts 23:9	Then there was a great crye: and the Scribes of the Pharises part rose vp, and stroue, saying, Wee finde none euill in this man: but if a spirit or an Angel hath spoken to him, let vs not fight against God.
Acts 23:10	And when there was a great dissension, the chiefe captaine, fearing lest Paul should haue bene pulled in pieces of them, commanded the souldiers to go downe, and take him from among them, and to bring him into the castel.
Acts 23:11	Nowe the night folowing, the Lord stoode by him, and saide, Be of good courage, Paul: for as thou hast testified of mee in Hierusalem, so must thou beare witnesse also at Rome.
Acts 23:12	And when the day was come, certaine of the Iewes made an assemblie, and bounde themselues with a curse, saying, that they woulde neither eate nor drinke, till they had killed Paul.
Acts 23:13	And they were more then fourtie, which had made this conspiracie.
Acts 23:14	And they came to the chiefe Priestes and Elders, and said, We haue bound our selues with a solemne curse, that wee will eate nothing, vntill we haue slaine Paul.
Acts 23:15	Nowe therefore, ye and the Council signifie to the chiefe captaine, that hee bring him foorth vnto you to morow: as though you would know some thing more perfectly of him, and we, or euer he come neere, will be readie to kill him.
Acts 23:16	But when Pauls sisters sonne heard of their laying awaite, he went, and entred into the castel, and tolde Paul.
Acts 23:17	And Paul called one of the Centurions vnto him, and said, Take this yong man hence vnto the chiefe captaine: for he hath a certaine thing to shewe him.
Acts 23:18	So hee tooke him, and brought him to the chiefe captaine, and saide, Paul the prisoner called mee vnto him, and prayed mee to bring this yong man vnto thee, which hath some thing to say vnto thee.
Acts 23:19	Then the chiefe captaine tooke him by the hande, and went apart with him alone, and asked him, What hast thou to shewe me?
Acts 23:20	And he saide, The Iewes haue conspired to desire thee, that thou wouldest bring foorth Paul to morow into the Council, as though they would inquire somewhat of him more perfectly:
Acts 23:21	But let them not perswade thee: for there lie in waite for him of them, more then fourtie men, which haue bound themselues with a curse, that they will neither eate nor drinke, till they haue killed him: and nowe are they readie, and waite for thy promise.
Acts 23:22	The chiefe captaine then let the yong man depart, after hee had charged him to vtter it to no man, that he had shewed him these things.
Acts 23:23	And he called vnto him two certaine Centurions, saying, Make readie two hundred souldiers, that they may go to Cæsarea, and horsemen three score and ten, and two hundred with dartes, at the thirde houre of the night.
Acts 23:24	And let them make readie an horse, that Paul being set on, may be brought safe vnto Felix the Gouernour.
Acts 23:25	And he wrote an epistle in this maner:
Acts 23:26	Claudius Lysias vnto the most noble Gouernour Felix sendeth greeting.
Acts 23:27	As this man was taken of the Iewes, and shoulde haue bene killed of them, I came vpon them with the garison, and rescued him, perceiuing that he was a Romane.
Acts 23:28	And when I would haue knowen the cause, wherefore they accused him, I brought him forth into their Council.
Acts 23:29	There I perceiued that hee was accused of questions of their Lawe, but had no crime worthy of death, or of bondes.
Acts 23:30	And when it was shewed me, how that the Iewes layd waite for the man, I sent him straightway to thee, and commanded his accusers to speake before thee the thinges that they had against him. Farewell.
Acts 23:31	Then the souldiers as it was commanded them, tooke Paul, and brought him by night to Antipatris.
Acts 23:32	And the next day, they left the horsemen to goe with him, and returned vnto the Castel.
Acts 23:33	Now when they came to Cæsarea, they deliuered the epistle to the Gouernour, and presented Paul also vnto him.
Acts 23:34	So when the Gouernour had read it, hee asked of what prouince he was: and when he vnderstoode that he was of Cilicia,
Acts 23:35	I will heare thee, said he, when thine accusers also are come, and commanded him to bee kept in Herods iudgement hall.
Acts 24:1	Now after fiue dayes, Ananias the hie Priest came downe with the Elders, and with Tertullus a certaine oratour, which appeared before the Gouernour against Paul.
Acts 24:2	And when he was called foorth, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, Seeing that we haue obtained great quietnesse through thee, and that many worthy things are done vnto this nation through thy prouidence,
Acts 24:3	We acknowledge it wholy, and in all places most noble Felix, with all thankes,
Acts 24:4	But that I be not tedious vnto thee, I pray thee, that thou wouldest heare vs of thy courtesie a fewe wordes.
Acts 24:5	Certainely we haue found this man a pestilent fellowe, and a moouer of sedition among all the Iewes throughout the world, and a chiefe maintainer of the secte of the Nazarites:
Acts 24:6	And hath gone about to pollute the Temple: therefore wee tooke him, and woulde haue iudged him according to our Lawe:
Acts 24:7	But the chiefe captaine Lysias came vpon vs, and with great violence tooke him out of our handes,
Acts 24:8	Commanding his accusers to come to thee: of whom thou mayest (if thou wilt inquire) know all these things whereof we accuse him.
Acts 24:9	And the Iewes likewise affirmed, saying that it was so.
Acts 24:10	Then Paul, after that the gouernour had beckened vnto him that hee shoulde speake, answered, I do the more gladly answere for my selfe, for as much as I knowe that thou hast bene of many yeres a iudge vnto this nation,
Acts 24:11	Seeing that thou mayest knowe, that there are but twelue dayes since I came vp to worship in Hierusalem.
Acts 24:12	And they neither found mee in the Temple disputing with any man, neither making vproare among the people, neither in the Synagogues, nor in the citie.
Acts 24:13	Neither can they proue the things, whereof they now accuse me.
Acts 24:14	But this I confesse vnto thee, that after the way (which they call heresie) so worship I the God of my fathers, beleeuing all things which are written in the Lawe and the Prophets,
Acts 24:15	And haue hope towardes God, that the resurrection of the dead, which they themselues looke for also, shalbe both of iust and vniust.
Acts 24:16	And herein I endeuour my selfe to haue alway a cleare conscience towarde God, and toward men.
Acts 24:17	Now after many yeres, I came and brought almes to my nation and offerings.
Acts 24:18	At what time, certaine Iewes of Asia founde mee purified in the Temple, neither with multitude, nor with tumult.
Acts 24:19	Who ought to haue bene present before thee, and accuse me, if they had ought against me.
Acts 24:20	Or let these themselues say, if they haue found any vniust thing in mee, while I stoode in the Council,
Acts 24:21	Except it be for this one voyce, that I cried standing among them, Of the resurrection of the dead am I accused of you this day.
Acts 24:22	Nowe when Felix heard these things, he deferred them, and said, When I shall more perfectly know the things which concerne this way, by the comming of Lysias the chiefe Captaine, I will decise your matter.
Acts 24:23	Then hee commanded a Centurion to keepe Paul, and that he should haue ease, and that he should forbid none of his acquaintance to minister vnto him, or to come vnto him.
Acts 24:24	And after certaine dayes, came Felix with his wife Drusilla, which was a Iewesse, and he called foorth Paul, and heard him of the faith in Christ.
Acts 24:25	And as he disputed of righteousnes and temperance, and of the iudgement to come, Felix trembled, and answered, Go thy way for this time, and when I haue conuenient time, I will call for thee.
Acts 24:26	Hee hoped also that money shoulde haue bene giuen him of Paul, that he might loose him: wherefore hee sent for him the oftner, and communed with him.
Acts 24:27	When two yeeres were expired, Porcius Festus came into Felix roume: and Felix willing to get fauour of the Iewes, left Paul bound.
Acts 25:1	When Festus was then come into the prouince, after three dayes he went vp from Caesarea vnto Hierusalem.
Acts 25:2	Then the high Priest, and the chiefe of the Iewes appeared before him against Paul: and they besought him,
Acts 25:3	And desired fauour against him, that hee would send for him to Hierusalem: and they layd waite to kill him by the way.
Acts 25:4	But Festus answered, that Paul should bee kept at Caesarea, and that he himselfe would shortly depart thither.
Acts 25:5	Let them therefore, saide he, which among you are able, come downe with vs: and if there be any wickednes in the man, let them accuse him.
Acts 25:6	Now when he had taried among them no more then ten dayes, hee went downe to Caesarea, and the next day sate in the iudgement seat, and commanded Paul to be brought.
Acts 25:7	And when hee was come, the Iewes which were come from Hierusalem, stoode about him and layd many and grieuous complaints against Paul, whereof they could make no plaine proofe,
Acts 25:8	Forasmuch as he answered, that he had neither offended any thing against the lawe of the Iewes, neither against ye temple, nor against Caesar.
Acts 25:9	Yet Festus willing to get fauour of the Iewes, answered Paul and saide, Wilt thou goe vp to Hierusalem, and there be iudged of these things before mee?
Acts 25:10	Then said Paul, I stand at Caesars iudgment seate, where I ought to be iudged: to the Iewes I haue done no wrong, as thou very well knowest.
Acts 25:11	For if I haue done wrong, or committed any thing worthie of death, I refuse not to die: but if there be none of these things whereof they accuse me, no man, to pleasure them, can deliuer me to them: I appeale vnto Caesar.
Acts 25:12	Then when Festus had spoken with the Council, hee answered, Hast thou appealed vnto Caesar? vnto Caesar shalt thou goe.
Acts 25:13	And after certaine dayes, King Agrippa and Bernice came downe to Caesarea to salute Festus.
Acts 25:14	And when they had remained there many dayes, Festus declared Pauls cause vnto the King, saying, There is a certaine man left in prison by Felix,
Acts 25:15	Of whom when I came to Hierusalem, the high Priestes and Elders of the Iewes informed me, and desired to haue iudgement against him.
Acts 25:16	To whome I answered, that it is not the maner of the Romanes for fauour to deliuer any man to the death, before that hee which is accused, haue the accusers before him, and haue place to defend himselfe, concerning the crime.
Acts 25:17	Therefore when they were come hither, without delay the day following I sate on the iudgement seate, and commanded the man to be brought foorth.
Acts 25:18	Against whom when the accusers stood vp, they brought no crime of such things as I supposed:
Acts 25:19	But had certaine questions against him of their owne superstition, and of one Iesus which was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be aliue.
Acts 25:20	And because I doubted of such maner of question, I asked him whether he would goe to Hierusalem, and there be iudged of these things.
Acts 25:21	But because he appealed to be reserued to the examination of Augustus, I commanded him to be kept, till I mght send him to Cesar.
Acts 25:22	Then Agrippa sayd vnto Festus, I would also heare the man my selfe. To morowe, sayd he, thou shalt heare him.
Acts 25:23	And on the morowe when Agrippa was come and Bernice with great pompe, and were entred into the Common hall with the chiefe captaines and chiefe men of the citie, at Festus commandement Paul was brought forth.
Acts 25:24	And Festus sayd, King Agrippa, and all men which are present with vs, ye see this man, about whom all the multitude of the Iewes haue called vpon me, both at Hierusalem, and here, crying, that he ought not to liue any longer.
Acts 25:25	Yet haue I found nothing worthy of death, that he hath committed: neuertheles, seeing that he hath appealed to Augustus, I haue determined to send him.
Acts 25:26	Of whome I haue no certaine thing to write vnto my Lord: wherefore I haue brought him forth vnto you, and specially vnto thee, King Agrippa, that after examination had, I might haue somewhat to write.
Acts 25:27	For me thinketh it vnreasonable to send a prisoner, and not to shewe the causes which are layde against him.
Acts 26:1	Then Agrippa sayd vnto Paul, Thou art permitted to speake for thy selfe. So Paul stretched forth the hand, and answered for himselfe.
Acts 26:2	I thinke my selfe happy, King Agrippa, because I shall answere this day before thee of all the things whereof I am accused of the Iewes.
Acts 26:3	Chiefly, because thou hast knowledge of all customes, and questions which are among the Iewes: wherefore I beseech thee, to heare me patiently.
Acts 26:4	As touching my life from my childhood, and what it was from the beginning among mine owne nation at Hierusalem, know all the Iewes,
Acts 26:5	Which knewe me heretofore, euen from my elders (if they would testifie) that after the most straite sect of our religion I liued a Pharise.
Acts 26:6	And now I stand and am accused for the hope of the promise made of God vnto our fathers.
Acts 26:7	Whereunto our twelue tribes instantly seruing God day and night, hope to come: for the which hopes sake, O King Agrippa, I am accused of the Iewes.
Acts 26:8	Why should it be thought a thing incredible vnto you, that God should raise againe the dead?
Acts 26:9	I also verely thought in my selfe, that I ought to doe many contrarie things against the Name of Iesus of Nazareth.
Acts 26:10	Which thing I also did in Hierusalem: for many of the Saints I shut vp in prison, hauing receiued authoritie of the hie Priests, and when they were put to death, I gaue my sentence.
Acts 26:11	And I punished them throughout all the Synagogues, and compelled them to blaspheme, and being more mad against them, I persecuted them, euen vnto strange cities.
Acts 26:12	At which time, euen as I went to Damascus with authoritie, and commission from the hie Priests,
Acts 26:13	At midday, O King, I sawe in the way a light from heauen, passing the brightnes of the sunne, shine round about mee, and them which went with me.
Acts 26:14	So when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voyce speaking vnto me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kicke against pricks.
Acts 26:15	Then I sayd, Who art thou, Lord? And he sayd, I am Iesus whom thou persecutest.
Acts 26:16	But rise and stand vp on thy feete: for I haue appeared vnto thee for this purpose, to appoint thee a minister and a witnesse, both of the things which thou hast seene, and of the things in the which I will appeare vnto thee,
Acts 26:17	Deliuering thee from this people, and from the Gentiles, vnto whom now I send thee,
Acts 26:18	To open their eyes, that they may turne from darknes to light, and from the power of Satan vnto God, that they may receiue forgiuenes of sinnes, and inheritance among them, which are sanctified by fayth in me.
Acts 26:19	Wherefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient vnto the heauenly vision,
Acts 26:20	But shewed first vnto them of Damascus, and at Hierusalem, and throughout all the coasts of Iudea, and then to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turne to God, and doe workes worthy amendment of life.
Acts 26:21	For this cause the Iewes caught me in the Temple, and went about to kill me.
Acts 26:22	Neuertheles, I obteined helpe of God, and continue vnto this day, witnessing both to small and to great, saying none other things, then those which the Prophets and Moses did say should come,
Acts 26:23	To wit, that Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead, and should shew light vnto this people, and to the Gentiles.
Acts 26:24	And as he thus answered for himselfe, Festus said with a loude voyce, Paul, thou art besides thy selfe: much learning doeth make thee mad.
Acts 26:25	But he said, I am not mad, O noble Festus, but I speake the wordes of trueth and sobernes.
Acts 26:26	For the King knoweth of these things, before whom also I speake boldly: for I am perswaded that none of these things are hidden from him: for this thing was not done in a corner.
Acts 26:27	O King Agrippa, beleeuest thou the Prophets? I know that thou beleeuest.
Acts 26:28	Then Agrippa said vnto Paul, Almost thou perswadest me to become a Christian.
Acts 26:29	Then Paul sayd, I would to God that not onely thou, but also all that heare me to day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds.
Acts 26:30	And when he had thus spoken, the King rose vp, and the gouernour, and Bernice, and they that sate with them.
Acts 26:31	And when they were gone apart, they talked betweene themselues, saying, This man doeth nothing worthy of death, nor of bonds.
Acts 26:32	Then sayd Agrippa vnto Festus, This man might haue bene loosed, if hee had not appealed vnto Cesar.
Acts 27:1	Now when it was concluded, that we should sayle into Italie, they deliuered both Paul, and certaine other prisoners vnto a Centurion named Iulius, of the band of Augustus.
Acts 27:2	And we entred into a ship of Adramyttium purposing to saile by the coastes of Asia, and launched foorth, and had Aristarchus of Macedonia, a Thessalonian, with vs.
Acts 27:3	And the next day we arriued at Sidon: and Iulius courteously entreated Paul, and gaue him libertie to go vnto his friends, that they might refresh him.
Acts 27:4	And from thence we launched, and sayled hard by Cyprus, because ye windes were contrarie.
Acts 27:5	Then sayled we ouer the sea by Cilicia, and Pamphilia, and came to Myra, a citie in Lycia.
Acts 27:6	And there the Centurion found a ship of Alexandria, sayling into Italie, and put vs therein.
Acts 27:7	And when we had sayled slowly many dayes, and scarce were come against Gnidum, because the winde suffered vs not, we sailed hard by Candie, neere to Salmone,
Acts 27:8	And with much adoe sayled beyond it, and came vnto a certaine place called the Faire hauens, neere vnto the which was the citie Lasea.
Acts 27:9	So when much time was spent, and sayling was now ieopardous, because also the Fast was nowe passed, Paul exhorted them,
Acts 27:10	And sayde vnto them, Syrs, I see that this voiage will be with hurt and much damage, not of the lading and ship onely, but also of our liues.
Acts 27:11	Neuertheles the Centurion beleeued rather the gouernour and the master of the ship, then those things which were spoken of Paul.
Acts 27:12	And because the hauen was not commodious to winter in, many tooke counsell to depart thence, if by any meanes they might attaine to Phenice, there to winter, which is an hauen of Candie, and lyeth toward the Southwest and by West, and Northwest and by West.
Acts 27:13	And when the Southerne winde blew softly, they supposing to atteine their purpose, loosed neerer, and sailed by Candie.
Acts 27:14	But anon after, there arose by it a stormy winde called Euroclydon.
Acts 27:15	And when the ship was caught, and could not resist the winde, we let her goe, and were caried away.
Acts 27:16	And we ran vnder a litle Yle named Clauda, and had much a doe to get the boat.
Acts 27:17	Which they tooke vp and vsed all helpe, vndergirding the ship, fearing least they should haue fallen into Syrtes, and they strake saile, and so were caried.
Acts 27:18	The next day when we were tossed with an exceeding tempest, they lightened the ship.
Acts 27:19	And the third day we cast out with our owne hands the tackling of the ship.
Acts 27:20	And when neither sunne nor starres in many dayes appeared, and no small tempest lay vpon vs, all hope that we should be saued, was then taken away.
Acts 27:21	But after long abstinece, Paul stood forth in the mids of them, and said, Syrs, ye should haue hearkened to me, and not haue loosed from Candie: so should ye haue gained this hurt and losse.
Acts 27:22	But now I exhort you to be of good courage: for there shalbe no losse of any mans life among you, saue of the ship onely.
Acts 27:23	For there stood by me this night the Angel of God, whose I am, and whome I serue,
Acts 27:24	Saying, Feare not, Paul: for thou must be brought before Cesar: and lo, God hath giuen vnto thee freely all that sayle with thee.
Acts 27:25	Wherefore, sirs, be of good courage: for I beleeue God, that it shall be so as it hath bene tolde me.
Acts 27:26	Howbeit, we must be cast into a certaine Iland.
Acts 27:27	And when ye fourteenth night was come, as we were caried to and from in the Adriaticall sea about midnight, the shipmen deemed that some countrey approched vnto them,
Acts 27:28	And sounded, and found it twentie fathoms: and when they had gone a litle further, they sounded againe, and found fifteene fathoms.
Acts 27:29	Then fearing least they should haue fallen into some rough places, they cast foure ancres out of the sterne, and wished that the day were come.
Acts 27:30	Nowe as the mariners were about to flee out of the ship, and had let downe the boat into the sea vnder a colour as though they would haue cast ankers out of the foreship,
Acts 27:31	Paul sayde vnto the Centurion and the souldiers, Except these abide in the ship, ye can not be safe.
Acts 27:32	Then the souldiers cut off the ropes of the boat, and let it fall away.
Acts 27:33	And when it began to be day, Paul exhorted them all to take meate, saying, This is the fourteenth day that ye haue taried, and continued fasting, receiuing nothing:
Acts 27:34	Wherefore I exhort you to take meate: for this is for your safegarde: for there shall not an heare fall from the head of any of you.
Acts 27:35	And when he had thus spoken, hee tooke bread and gaue thankes to God, in presence of them all, and brake it, and began to eate.
Acts 27:36	Then were they all of good courage, and they also tooke meate.
Acts 27:37	Nowe we were in the ship in all two hundreth three score and sixteene soules.
Acts 27:38	And whe they had eaten ynough, they lightened the ship, and cast out the wheat into the sea.
Acts 27:39	And when it was day, they knewe not the countrey, but they spied a certaine creeke with a banke, into the which they were minded (if it were possible) to thrust in the ship.
Acts 27:40	So when they had taken vp the ankers, they committed the ship vnto the sea, and loosed the rudder bonds, and hoised vp the maine saile to the winde, and drewe to the shore.
Acts 27:41	And when they fell into a place, where two seas met, they thrust in the ship: and the forepart stucke fast, and could not be moued, but the hinderpart was broken with the violence of the waues.
Acts 27:42	Then the souldiers counsell was to kill the prisoners, least any of them, when he had swomme out, should flee away.
Acts 27:43	But the Centurion willing to saue Paul, stayed them from this counsell, and commanded that they that coulde swimme, shoulde cast them selues first into the sea, and goe out to land:
Acts 27:44	And the other, some on boardes, and some on certaine pieces of the ship: and so it came to passe that they came all safe to land.
Acts 28:1	And when they were come safe, then they knewe that the Yle was called Melita.
Acts 28:2	And the Barbarians shewed vs no litle kindnesse: for they kindled a fire, and receiued vs euery one, because of the present showre, and because of the colde.
Acts 28:3	And when Paul had gathered a nomber of stickes, and laid them on the fire, there came a viper out of the heate, and leapt on his hand.
Acts 28:4	Nowe when ye Barbarians saw the worme hang on his hand, they said among themselues, This man surely is a murtherer, whom, though he hath escaped the sea, yet Vengeance hath not suffered to liue.
Acts 28:5	But he shooke off the worme into the fire, and felt no harme.
Acts 28:6	Howbeit they wayted whe he should haue swolne, or fallen downe dead suddenly: but after they had looked a great while, and sawe no inconuenience come to him, they changed their mindes, and said, That he was a God.
Acts 28:7	In the same quarters, the chiefe man of the Yle (whose name was Publius) had possessions: the same receiued vs, and lodged vs three dayes courteously.
Acts 28:8	And so it was, that the father of Publius lay sicke of the feauer, and of a bloodie flixe: to whom Paul entred in, and when he prayed, he laide his hands on him, and healed him.
Acts 28:9	When this then was done, other also in the Yle, which had diseases, came to him, and were healed,
Acts 28:10	Which also did vs great honour: and when we departed, they laded vs with things necessarie.
Acts 28:11	Nowe after three moneths we departed in a shippe of Alexandria, which had wintred in the Yle, whose badge was Castor and Pollux.
Acts 28:12	And when we arriued at Syracuse, we taried there three dayes.
Acts 28:13	And from thence we set a compasse, and came to Rhegium: and after one day, the South wind blewe, and we came the seconde day to Putioli:
Acts 28:14	Where we found brethren, and were desired to tary with them seuen dayes, and so we went toward Rome.
Acts 28:15	And from thence, when the brethren heard of vs, they came to meete vs at the Market of Appius, and at the Three tauernes, whom when Paul sawe, he thanked God, and waxed bolde.
Acts 28:16	So when we came to Rome, the Centurion deliuered the prisoners to the generall Captaine: but Paul was suffered to dwell by him selfe with a souldier that kept him.
Acts 28:17	And the third day after, Paul called the chiefe of the Iewes together: and when they were come, he said vnto them, Men and brethren, though I haue committed nothing against the people, or Lawes of the fathers, yet was I deliuered prisoner from Hierusalem into the handes of the Romanes.
Acts 28:18	Who when they had examined me, would haue let me goe, because there was no cause of death in me.
Acts 28:19	But when the Iewes spake contrary, I was constrained to appeale vnto Cesar, not because I had ought to accuse my nation of.
Acts 28:20	For this cause therefore haue I called for you, to see you, and to speake with you: for that hope of Israels sake, I am bound with this chaine.
Acts 28:21	Then they saide vnto him, We neither receiued letters out of Iudea concerning thee, neither came any of the brethren that shewed or spake any euill of thee.
Acts 28:22	But we will heare of thee what thou thinkest: for as concerning this sect, we knowe that euery where it is spoken against.
Acts 28:23	And when they had appointed him a day, there came many vnto him into his lodging, to whom he expounded testifying the kingdome of God, and persuading them those things that concerne Iesus, both out of the Lawe of Moses, and out of the Prophets, from morning to night.
Acts 28:24	And some were persuaded with ye things which were spoken, and some beleeued not.
Acts 28:25	Therefore when they agreed not among themselues, they departed, after that Paul had spoken one word, to wit, Well spake the holy Ghost by Esaias the Prophet vnto our fathers,
Acts 28:26	Saying, Goe vnto this people, and say, By hearing ye shall heare, and shall not vnderstand, and seeing ye shall see, and not perceiue.
Acts 28:27	For the heart of this people is waxed fatte, and their eares are dull of hearing, and with their eyes haue they winked, least they shoulde see with their eyes, and heare with their eares, and vnderstand with their heartes, and should returne that I might heale them.
Acts 28:28	Be it knowen therefore vnto you, that this saluation of God is sent to the Gentiles, and they shall heare it.
Acts 28:29	And when he had saide these things, the Iewes departed, and had great reasoning among themselues.
Acts 28:30	And Paul remained two yeeres full in an house hired for himselfe, and receiued all that came in vnto him,
Acts 28:31	Preaching the kingdome of God, and teaching those things which concerne the Lord Iesus Christ, with all boldnesse of speache, without let.

===== BOOK: Amos =====
Amos 1:1	The wordes of Amos, who was among the heardmen at Tecoa, which he sawe vpon Israel, in the dayes of Vzziah king of Iudah, and in the dayes of Ieroboam the sonne of Ioash King of Israel, two yeere before the earthquake.
Amos 1:2	And he saide, The Lord shall roare from Zion, and vtter his voyce from Ierusalem, and the dwelling places of the shepheards shall perish, and the top of Carmel shall wither,
Amos 1:3	Thus saith the Lord, For three transgressions of Damascus, and for foure I will not turne to it, because they haue threshed Gilead with threshing instruments of yron.
Amos 1:4	Therefore will I sende a fire into the house of Hazael, and it shall deuoure the palaces of Ben-hadad.
Amos 1:5	I will breake also the barres of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitant of Bikeath-auen: and him that holdeth the scepter out of Beth-eden, and the people of Aram shall goe into captiuitie vnto Kir, sayth the Lord.
Amos 1:6	Thus sayth the Lord, For three transgressions of Azzah, and for foure, I will not turne to it, because they caried away prisoners the whole captiuitie to shut them vp in Edom.
Amos 1:7	Therefore will I sende a fire vpon the walles of Azzah, and it shall deuoure the palaces thereof.
Amos 1:8	And I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod, and him that holdeth the scepter from Ashkelon, and turne mine hande to Ekron, and the remnant of the Philistims shall perish, sayth the Lord God.
Amos 1:9	Thus sayth the Lord, For three transgressions of Tyrus, and for foure, I will not turne to it, because they shut the whole captiuitie in Edom, and haue not remembred the brotherly couenant.
Amos 1:10	Therefore wil I send a fire vpon ye walles of Tyrus, and it shall deuoure the palaces thereof.
Amos 1:11	Thus sayeth the Lord, For three transgressions of Edom, and for foure, I will not turne to it, because hee did pursue his brother with the sworde, and did cast off all pitie, and his anger spoyled him euermore, and his wrath watched him alway.
Amos 1:12	Therefore will I send a fire vpon Teman, and it shall deuoure the palaces of Bozrah.
Amos 1:13	Thus sayth ye Lord, For three transgressions of the children of Ammon, and for foure, I will not turne to it, because they haue ript vp the women with child of Gilead, that they might enlarge their border.
Amos 1:14	Therefore will I kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it shall deuoure the palaces thereof, with shouting in the day of battell, and with a tempest in the day of the whirlewinde.
Amos 1:15	And their King shall go into captiuitie, he and his princes together, saith the Lord.
Amos 2:1	Thus sayth the Lord, For three transgressions of Moab, and for foure, I will not turne to it, because it burnt the bones of the King of Edom into lime.
Amos 2:2	Therefore will I send a fire vpon Moab, and it shall deuoure the palaces of Kerioth, and Moab shall die with tumult, with shouting, and with the sound of a trumpet.
Amos 2:3	And I will cut off the iudge out of the mids thereof, and will slay all the princes thereof with him, sayth the Lord.
Amos 2:4	Thus saith the Lord, For three transgressions of Iudah, and for foure, I will not turne to it, because they haue cast away the Lawe of the Lord, and haue not kept his commandementes, and their lies caused them to erre after the which their fathers haue walked.
Amos 2:5	Therefore will I send a fire vpon Iudah, and it shall deuoure the palaces of Ierusalem.
Amos 2:6	Thus sayth the Lord, For three transgressions of Israel, and for foure, I will not turne to it, because they solde the righteous for siluer and the poore for shooes.
Amos 2:7	They gape ouer the head of the poore, in the dust of the earth, and peruert the wayes of the meeke: and a man and his father will goe in to a mayde to dishonour mine holy Name.
Amos 2:8	And they lye downe vpon clothes layde to pledge by euery altar: and they drinke the wine of the condemned in the house of their God.
Amos 2:9	Yet destroyed I the Amorite before the, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the okes: notwithstanding I destroyed his fruite from aboue, and his roote from beneath.
Amos 2:10	Also I brought you vp from the land of Egypt, and led you fourtie yeres thorowe the wildernesse, to possesse the land of the Amorite.
Amos 2:11	And I raysed vp of your sonnes for Prophets, and of your yong men for Nazarites. Is it not euen thus, O ye children of Israel, sayth the Lord?
Amos 2:12	But ye gaue the Nazarites wine to drinke, and commanded the Prophetes, saying, Prophecie not.
Amos 2:13	Behold, I am pressed vnder you as a cart is pressed that is full of sheaues.
Amos 2:14	Therefore the flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not strengthen his force, neither shall the mightie saue his life.
Amos 2:15	Nor he that handleth the bowe, shall stand, and he that is swift of foote, shall not escape, neyther shall he that rideth the horse, saue his life.
Amos 2:16	And he that is of a mighty courage among the strong men, shall flee away naked in that day, sayth the Lord.
Amos 3:1	Heare this worde that the Lord pronounceth against you, O children of Israel, euen against the whole familie which I brought vp from the land of Egypt, saying,
Amos 3:2	You onely haue I knowen of all the families of the earth: therefore I will visite you for all your iniquities.
Amos 3:3	Can two walke together except they bee agreed?
Amos 3:4	Will a lion roare in ye forest, when he hath no pray? or wil a lions whelpe cry out of his den, if he haue taken nothing?
Amos 3:5	Can a birde fall in a snare vpon the earth, where no fouler is? or will he take vp the snare from the earth, and haue taken nothing at all?
Amos 3:6	Or shall a trumpet be blowen in the citie, and the people be not afraide? or shall there be euil in a citie, and the Lord hath not done it?
Amos 3:7	Surely the Lord God will doe nothing, but he reueileth his secrete vnto his seruantes the Prophets.
Amos 3:8	The lyon hath roared: who will not bee afraide? the Lord God hath spoken: who can but prophecie?
Amos 3:9	Proclayme in the palaces at Ashdod, and in the palaces in the lande of Egypt, and saye, Assemble your selues vpon the mountaines of Samaria: so beholde the great tumultes in the middes thereof, and the oppressed in the middes thereof.
Amos 3:10	For they knowe not to doe right, sayth the Lord: they store vp violence, and robbery in their palaces.
Amos 3:11	Therefore thus saith the Lord God, An aduersary shall come euen rounde about the countrey, and shall bring downe thy strength from thee, and thy palaces shalbe spoyled.
Amos 3:12	Thus saieth the Lord, As the shephearde taketh out of the mouth of the lyon two legges, or a piece of an eare: so shall the children of Israel be taken out that dwell in Samaria in the corner of a bed, and in Damascus, as in a couche.
Amos 3:13	Heare, and testifie in the house of Iaakob, saith the Lord God, the God of hostes.
Amos 3:14	Surely in the day that I shall visit the transgressions of Israel vpon him, I wil also visite the altars of Beth-el, and the hornes of the altar shall be broken off, and fall to the ground.
Amos 3:15	And I wil smite the winter house with the sommer house, and the houses of yuorie shall perish, and the great houses shalbe consumed, sayth the Lord.
Amos 4:1	Heare this worde, ye kine of Bashan that are in the mountaine of Samaria, which oppresse the poore, and destroy the needie, and they say to their masters, Bring, and let vs drinke.
Amos 4:2	The Lord God hath sworne by his holines, that loe, the dayes shall come vpon you, that hee wil take you away with thornes, and your posteritie with fish hookes.
Amos 4:3	And ye shall goe out at the breaches euery kow forward: and ye shall cast your selues out of the palace, saith the Lord.
Amos 4:4	Come to Beth-el, and transgresse: to Gilgal, and multiplie transgression, and bring your sacrifices in the morning, and your tithes after three yeres.
Amos 4:5	And offer a thankesgiuing of leauen, publish and proclaime the free offrings: for this liketh you, O ye children of Israel, saith the Lord God.
Amos 4:6	And therefore haue I giuen you cleannes of teeth in all your cities, and scarcenesse of bread in all your places, yet haue ye not returned vnto me, saith the Lord.
Amos 4:7	And also I haue withholden the raine from you, when there were yet three moneths to the haruest, and I caused it to raine vpon one citie, and haue not caused it to raine vpon another citie: one piece was rained vpon, and the piece whereupon it rained not, withered.
Amos 4:8	So two or three cities wandred vnto one citie to drinke water, but they were not satisfied: yet haue ye not returned vnto me, saith the Lord.
Amos 4:9	I haue smitten you with blasting, and mildewe: your great gardens and your vineyardes, and your figtrees, and your oliue trees did the palmer worme deuoure: yet haue ye not returned vnto me, saith the Lord.
Amos 4:10	Pestilence haue I sent among you, after the maner of Egypt: your yong men haue I slaine with the sworde, and haue taken away your horses: and I haue made the stinke of your tentes to come vp euen into your nostrels: yet haue yee not returned vnto me, saith the Lord.
Amos 4:11	I haue ouerthrowe you, as God ouerthrew Sodom and Gomorah: and ye were as a firebrand pluckt out of the burning: yet haue ye not returned vnto me, saith the Lord.
Amos 4:12	Therefore, thus wil I do vnto thee, O Israel: and because I wil doe this vnto thee, prepare to meete thy God, O Israel.
Amos 4:13	For lo, he that formeth the mountaines, and createth the winde, and declareth vnto man what is his thought: which maketh the morning darkenesse, and walketh vpon the hie places of the earth, the Lord God of hostes is his Name.
Amos 5:1	Heare ye this worde, which I lift vp vpon you, euen a lamentation of the house of Israel.
Amos 5:2	The virgine Israel is fallen, and shall no more rise: shee is left vpon her lande, and there is none to raise her vp.
Amos 5:3	For thus saith ye Lord God, The citie which went out by a thousand, shall leaue an hundreth: and that which went forth by an hundreth, shall leaue ten to the house of Israel.
Amos 5:4	For thus saith the Lord vnto the house of Israel, Seeke ye me, and ye shall liue.
Amos 5:5	But seeke not Beth-el, nor enter into Gilgal, and go not to Beer-sheba: for Gilgal shall goe into captiuitie, and Beth-el shall come to nought.
Amos 5:6	Seeke the Lord, and yee shall liue, least he breake out like fire in the house of Ioseph and deuoure it, and there be none to quench it in Beth-el.
Amos 5:7	They turne iudgement to wormewood, and leaue off righteousnes in the earth.
Amos 5:8	He maketh Pleiades, and Orion, and he turneth the shadowe of death into the morning, and he maketh the day darke as night: he calleth the waters of the sea, and powreth them out vpon the open earth: the Lord is his Name.
Amos 5:9	He strengtheneth the destroyer against the mightie: and the destroyer shall come against the fortresse.
Amos 5:10	They haue hated him, that rebuked in the gate: and they abhorred him that speaketh vprightly.
Amos 5:11	Forasmuch then as your treading is vpon the poore, and yee take from him burdens of wheate, ye haue built houses of hewen stone, but ye shall not dwel in them: ye haue plated pleasant vineyards, but ye shall not drinke wine of them.
Amos 5:12	For I know your manifold transgressions, and your mightie sinnes: they afflict the iust, they take rewards, and they oppresse the poore in ye gate.
Amos 5:13	Therefore the prudent shall keepe silence in that time, for it is an euill time.
Amos 5:14	Seeke good and not euil, that ye may liue: and the Lord God of hostes shalbe with you, as you haue spoken.
Amos 5:15	Hate the euil, and loue the good, and establish iudgement in the gate: it may bee that the Lord God of hostes will be mercifull vnto the remnant of Ioseph.
Amos 5:16	Therfore the Lord God of hosts, the Lord saith thus, Mourning shalbe in all streetes: and they shall say in al the hie wayes, Alas, alas: and they shall call the husbandman to lamentation, and such as can mourne, to mourning.
Amos 5:17	And in al the vines shalbe lamentation: for I wil passe through thee, saith the Lord.
Amos 5:18	Woe vnto you, that desire the day of the Lord: what haue you to do with it? the day of the Lord is darkenes and not light.
Amos 5:19	As if a man did flee from a lyon, and a beare met him: or went into the house, and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him.
Amos 5:20	Shal not the day of the Lord be darkenes, and not light? euen darkenes and no light in it?
Amos 5:21	I hate and abhorre your feast dayes, and I wil not smelll in your solemne assemblies.
Amos 5:22	Though ye offer me burnt offrings and meat offrings, I wil not accept them: neither will I regard the peace offrings of your fat beasts.
Amos 5:23	Take thou away from me the multitude of thy songs (for I wil not heare the melodie of thy violes)
Amos 5:24	And let iudgement runne downe as waters, and righteousnesse as a mightie riuer.
Amos 5:25	Haue ye offered vnto me sacrifices and offrings in the wildernesse fourtie yeeres, O house of Israel?
Amos 5:26	But you haue borne Siccuth your King, and Chiun your images, and the starre of your gods, which ye made to your selues.
Amos 5:27	Therefore wil I cause you to goe into captiuitie beyond Damascus, saith the Lord, whose Name is the God of hostes.
Amos 6:1	Woe to them that are at ease in Zion and trust in the moutaine of Samaria, which were famous at the beginning of the nations: and the house of Israel came to them.
Amos 6:2	Goe you vnto Calneh, and see: and from thence goe you to Hamath the great: then goe downe to Gath of the Philistims: be they better then these kingdomes? or the border of their land greater then your border,
Amos 6:3	Ye that put farre away the euill day, and approch to the seate of iniquitie?
Amos 6:4	They lie vpon beddes of yuorie, and stretch themselues vpon their beddes, and eate the lambes of the flocke, and the calues out of the stall.
Amos 6:5	They sing to the sounde of the viole: they inuent to themselues instruments of musike like Dauid.
Amos 6:6	They drinke wine in bowles, and anoynt themselues with the chiefe ointments, but no man is sory for the affliction of Ioseph.
Amos 6:7	Therefore nowe shall they go captiue with the first that go captiue, and the sorow of them that stretched themselues, is at hand.
Amos 6:8	The Lord God hath sworne by himselfe, saith the Lord God of hostes, I abhorre the excellencie of Iaakob, and hate his palaces: therefore wil I deliuer vp the citie with all that is therein.
Amos 6:9	And if there remaine ten men in one house, they shall die.
Amos 6:10	And his vncle shall take him vp and burne him to cary out the bones out of the house, and shall say vnto him, that is by ye sides of the house, Is there yet any with thee? And he shall say, None. Then shall he say, Holde thy tongue: for we may not remember the Name of the Lord.
Amos 6:11	For behold, the Lord commandeth, and he will smite the great house with breaches, and the litle house with clefts.
Amos 6:12	Shal horses runne vpon the rocke? or wil one plowe there with oxen? for yee haue turned iudgement into gall, and the fruite of righteousnes into wormewood.
Amos 6:13	Ye reioyce in a thing of nought: yee say, Haue not wee gotten vs hornes by our owne strength?
Amos 6:14	But behold, I wil raise vp against you a nation, O house of Israel, sayeth the Lord God of hostes: and they shall afflict you, from the entring in of Hamath vnto the riuer of the wildernes.
Amos 7:1	Thus hath the Lord God shewed vnto mee, and beholde, he formed grashoppers in the beginning of ye shooting vp of the latter grouth: and loe, it was in the latter grouth after the Kings mowing.
Amos 7:2	And when they had made an ende of eating the grasse of the land, then I saide, O Lord God, spare, I beseeche thee: who shall raise vp Iaakob? for he is small.
Amos 7:3	So the Lord repented for this. It shall not be, saith the Lord.
Amos 7:4	Thus also hath the Lord God shewed vnto me, and behold, the Lord God called to iudgement by fire, and it deuoured the great deepe, and did eate vp a part.
Amos 7:5	Then said I, O Lord God, cease, I beseeche thee: who shall raise vp Iaakob? for he is small.
Amos 7:6	So the Lord repented for this. This also shall not be, saith the Lord God.
Amos 7:7	Thus againe he shewed me, and behold, the Lord stoode vpon a wall made by line with a line in his hand.
Amos 7:8	And the Lord saide vnto me, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A line. Then said the Lord, Beholde, I wil set a line in the middes of my people Israel, and wil passe by them no more.
Amos 7:9	And the hye places of Izhak shalbe desolate, and the temples of Israel shalbe destroyed: and I wil rise against the house of Ieroboam with the sworde.
Amos 7:10	Then Amaziah the Priest of Beth-el sent to Ieroboam King of Israel, saying, Amos hath conspired against thee in the middes of the house of Israel: the lande is not able to beare all his wordes.
Amos 7:11	For thus Amos saith, Ieroboam shall die by the sworde, and Israel shalbe led away captiue out of their owne land.
Amos 7:12	Also Amaziah sayde vnto Amos, O thou the Seer, goe, flee thou away into the land of Iudah, and there eate thy bread and prophecie there.
Amos 7:13	But prophecie no more at Beth-el: for it is the Kings chappel, and it is the Kings court.
Amos 7:14	Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah, I was no Prophet, neither was I a prophets sonne, but I was an herdman, and a gatherer of wilde figs.
Amos 7:15	And the Lord tooke me as I followed the flocke, and the Lord said vnto me, Go, prophecie vnto my people Israel.
Amos 7:16	Now therefore heare thou the word of the Lord. Thou sayest, Prophecie not against Israel, and speake nothing against the house of Izhak.
Amos 7:17	Therefore thus sayth the Lord, Thy wife shall be an harlot in the citie, and thy sonnes and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy land shall be deuided by line: and thou shalt die in a polluted land, and Israel shall surely go into captiuitie forth of his land.
Amos 8:1	Thus hath the Lord God shewed vnto me, and behold, a basket of summer fruite.
Amos 8:2	And he said, Amos, what seest thou? And I sayd, A basket of sommer fruite. Then sayd the Lord vnto me, The ende is come vpon my people of Israel, I wil passe by them no more.
Amos 8:3	And the songs of the Temple shalbe howlings in that day, saith the Lord God: many dead bodies shalbe in euery place: they shall cast them forth with silence.
Amos 8:4	Heare this, O yee that swallowe vp the poore, that ye may make the needie of the lande to fayle,
Amos 8:5	Saying, When will the newe moneth bee gone, that we may sell corne? and the Sabbath, that we may set forth wheate, and make the Ephah small, and the shekel great, and falsifie the weights by deceit?
Amos 8:6	That we may buy the poore for siluer, and the needie for shooes: yea, and sell the refuse of the wheate.
Amos 8:7	The Lord hath sworne by the excellencie of Iaakob, Surely I will neuer forget any of their workes.
Amos 8:8	Shall not the lande tremble for this, and euery one mourne, that dwelleth therein? and it shall rise vp wholy as a flood, and it shall bee cast out, and drowned as by the flood of Egypt.
Amos 8:9	And in that day, saith the Lord God, I will euen cause the sunne to go downe at noone: and I will darken the earth in the cleare day.
Amos 8:10	And I will turne your feastes into mourning, and all your songs into lamentation: and I will bring sackcloth vpon all loynes, and baldnes vpon euery head: and I will make it as the mourning of an onely sonne, and the ende thereof as a bitter day.
Amos 8:11	Beholde, the dayes come, sayeth the Lord God, that I will send a famine in the lande, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the word of the Lord.
Amos 8:12	And they shall wander from sea to sea, and from the North euen vnto the East shall they run to and from to seeke the worde of the Lord, and shall not finde it.
Amos 8:13	In that day shall the faire virgines and the yong men perish for thirst.
Amos 8:14	They that sweare by the sinne of Samaria, and that say, Thy God, O Dan, liueth, and the maner of Beer-sheba liueth, euen they shall fall, and neuer rise vp againe.
Amos 9:1	I sawe the Lord standing vpon the altar, and he sayde, Smite the lintel of the doore, that the postes may shake: and cut them in pieces, euen the heads of them all, and I will slay the last of them with the sword: he that fleeth of them, shall not flee away: and he that escapeth of them, shall not be deliuered.
Amos 9:2	Though they digge into the hell, thence shall mine hande take them: though they clime vp to heauen, thence will I bring them downe.
Amos 9:3	And though they hide them selues in the toppe of Carmel, I will search and take them out thence: and though they be hid from my sight in the bottome of the sea, thence will I commande the serpent, and he shall bite them.
Amos 9:4	And though they goe into captiuitie before their enemies, thence wil I commande the sword, and it shall slay them: and I will set mine eyes vpon them for euill, and not for good.
Amos 9:5	And the Lord God of hosts shall touch the land, and it shall melt away, and al that dwel therein shall mourne, and it shall rise vp wholy like a flood, and shall bee drowned as by the flood of Egypt.
Amos 9:6	He buildeth his spheres in the heauen, and hath laide the foundation of his globe of elements in the earth: hee calleth the waters of the sea, and powreth them out vpon the open earth: the Lord is his Name.
Amos 9:7	Are ye not as the Ethiopians vnto mee, O children of Israel, sayeth the Lord? haue not I brought vp Israel out of the land of Egypt? and the Philistims from Caphtor, and Aram from Kir?
Amos 9:8	Beholde, the eyes of the Lord God are vpon the sinfull kingdome, and I will destroy it cleane out of the earth. Neuerthelesse I will not vtterly destroy the house of Iaakob, saith the Lord.
Amos 9:9	For loe, I will command and I will sift the house of Israel among all nations, like as corne is sifted in a sieue: yet shall not the least stone fall vpon the earth.
Amos 9:10	But all the sinners of my people shall dye by the sword, which say, The euill shall not come, nor hasten for vs.
Amos 9:11	In that day will I raise vp the tabernacle of Dauid, that is fallen downe, and close vp the breaches therof, and I will rayse vp his ruines, and I will builde it, as in the dayes of olde,
Amos 9:12	That they may possesse the remnant of Edom, and of all the heathen, because my Name is called vpon them, sayeth the Lord, that doeth this.
Amos 9:13	Behold, the dayes come, saith the Lord, that the plowman shall touche the mower, and the treader of grapes him that soweth seede: and the mountaines shall drop sweete wine, and all the hilles shall melt.
Amos 9:14	And I will bring againe the captiuitie of my people of Israel: and they shall build the waste cities, and inhabite the, and they shall plant vineyardes, and drinke the wine thereof: they shall also make gardens, and eate the fruites of them.
Amos 9:15	And I wil plant them vpon their land, and they shall no more bee pulled vp againe out of their lande, which I haue giuen them, sayeth the Lord thy God.

===== BOOK: Colossians =====
Colossians 1:1	Paul an Apostle of Iesus Christ, by the will of God, and Timotheus our brother,
Colossians 1:2	To them which are at Colosse, Saintes and faithfull brethren in Christ: Grace bee with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
Colossians 1:3	We giue thankes to God euen ye Father of our Lord Iesus Christ, alway praying for you:
Colossians 1:4	Since wee heard of your faith in Christ Iesus, and of your loue toward all Saintes,
Colossians 1:5	For the hopes sake, which is laide vp for you in heauen, whereof yee haue heard before by the word of trueth, which is the Gospel,
Colossians 1:6	Which is come vnto you, eue as it is vnto al the world, and is fruitful, as it is also amog you, from ye day that ye heard and truely knew ye grace of God,
Colossians 1:7	As yee also learned of Epaphras our deare fellowe seruaunt, which is for you a faithfull minister of Christ:
Colossians 1:8	Who hath also declared vnto vs your loue in the Spirit.
Colossians 1:9	For this cause wee also, since the day wee heard of it, cease not to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be fulfilled with knowledge of his will in all wisdome, and spirituall vnderstanding,
Colossians 1:10	That ye might walke worthy of the Lord, and please him in all things, being fruitefull in all good workes, and increasing in the knowledge of God,
Colossians 1:11	Strengthened with all might through his glorious power, vnto all patience, and long suffering with ioyfulnesse,
Colossians 1:12	Giuing thankes vnto the Father, which hath made vs meete to be partakers of the inheritance of the Saintes in light,
Colossians 1:13	Who hath deliuered vs from the power of darkenesse, and hath translated vs into the kingdome of his deare Sonne,
Colossians 1:14	In whome we haue redemption through his blood, that is, the forgiuenesse of sinnes,
Colossians 1:15	Who is the image of the inuisible God, the first begotten of euery creature.
Colossians 1:16	For by him were all things created, which are in heauen, and which are in earth, thinges visible and inuisible: whether they be Thrones or Dominions, or Principalities, or Powers, all things were created by him, and for him,
Colossians 1:17	And hee is before all things, and in him all things consist.
Colossians 1:18	And hee is the head of the body of the Church: he is the beginning, and the first begotten of the dead, that in all thinges hee might haue the preeminence.
Colossians 1:19	For it pleased the Father, that in him should all fulnesse dwell,
Colossians 1:20	And through peace made by that blood of that his crosse, to reconcile to himselfe through him, through him, I say, all thinges, both which are in earth, and which are in heauen.
Colossians 1:21	And you which were in times past strangers and enemies, because your mindes were set in euill workes, hath he nowe also reconciled,
Colossians 1:22	In that body of his flesh through death, to make you holy, and vnblameable and without fault in his sight,
Colossians 1:23	If ye continue, grounded and stablished in the faith, and be not moued away from the hope of the Gospel, whereof ye haue heard, and which hath bene preached to euery creature which is vnder heauen, whereof I Paul am a minister.
Colossians 1:24	Now reioyce I in my suffrings for you, and fulfill the rest of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh, for his bodies sake, which is the Church,
Colossians 1:25	Whereof I am a minister, according to the dispensation of God, which is giuen mee vnto you ward, to fulfill the word of God,
Colossians 1:26	Which is the mysterie hid since the world began, and from all ages, but nowe is made manifest to his Saintes,
Colossians 1:27	To whome God woulde make knowen what is the riches of his glorious mysterie among the Gentiles, which riches is Christ in you, the hope of glory,
Colossians 1:28	Whome we preache, admonishing euery man, and teaching euery man in all wisdome, that we may present euery man perfect in Christ Iesus,
Colossians 1:29	Whereunto I also labour and striue, according to his working which worketh in me mightily.
Colossians 2:1	For I woulde ye knewe what great fighting I haue for your sakes, and for them of Laodicea, and for as many as haue not seene my person in the flesh,
Colossians 2:2	That their heartes might be comforted, and they knit together in loue, and in all riches of the full assurance of vnderstanding, to know the mysterie of God, euen the Father, and of Christ:
Colossians 2:3	In whom are hid all the treasures of wisedome and knowledge.
Colossians 2:4	And this I say, lest any man shoulde beguile you with entising wordes:
Colossians 2:5	For though I be absent in the flesh, yet am I with you in the spirit, reioycing and beholding your order, and your stedfast faith in Christ.
Colossians 2:6	As ye haue therefore receiued Christ Iesus the Lord, so walke in him,
Colossians 2:7	Rooted and built in him, and stablished in the faith, as ye haue bene taught, abouding therein with thankesgiuing.
Colossians 2:8	Beware lest there be any man that spoile you through philosophie, and vaine deceit, through the traditions of men, according to the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ.
Colossians 2:9	For in him dwelleth all the fulnesse of the Godhead bodily.
Colossians 2:10	And yee are complete in him, which is the head of all principalitie and power.
Colossians 2:11	In whome also yee are circumcised with circumcision made without handes, by putting off the sinfull body of the flesh, through the circumcision of Christ,
Colossians 2:12	In that yee are buried with him through baptisme, in whome ye are also raised vp together through the faith of the operation of God, which raised him from the dead.
Colossians 2:13	And you which were dead in sinnes, and in the vncircumcision of your flesh, hath he quickened together with him, forgiuing you all your trespasses,
Colossians 2:14	And putting out the hand writing of ordinances that was against vs, which was contrarie to vs, hee euen tooke it out of the way, and fastened it vpon the crosse,
Colossians 2:15	And hath spoyled the Principalities, and Powers, and hath made a shew of them openly, and hath triumphed ouer them in the same crosse.
Colossians 2:16	Let no man therefore condemne you in meate and drinke, or in respect of an holy day, or of the newe moone, or of the Sabbath dayes,
Colossians 2:17	Which are but a shadowe of thinges to come: but the body is in Christ.
Colossians 2:18	Let no man at his pleasure beare rule ouer you by humblenesse of minde, and worshipping of Angels, aduauncing himselfe in those thinges which hee neuer sawe, rashly puft vp with his fleshly minde,
Colossians 2:19	And holdeth not the head, whereof all the body furnished and knit together by ioyntes and bands, increaseth with the increasing of God.
Colossians 2:20	Wherefore if ye be dead with Christ from the ordinances of the world, why, as though ye liued in ye world, are ye burdened with traditions?
Colossians 2:21	As, Touch not, Taste not, Handle not.
Colossians 2:22	Which al perish with the vsing, and are after the commandements and doctrines of men.
Colossians 2:23	Which thinges haue in deede a shewe of wisdome, in voluntarie religion and humblenesse of minde, and in not sparing the body, which are thinges of no valewe, sith they perteine to the filling of the flesh.
Colossians 3:1	If yee then bee risen with Christ, seeke those thinges which are aboue, where Christ sitteth at the right hand of God.
Colossians 3:2	Set your affections on things which are aboue, and not on things which are on the earth.
Colossians 3:3	For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God.
Colossians 3:4	When Christ which is our life, shall appeare, then shall ye also appeare with him in glory.
Colossians 3:5	Mortifie therefore your members which are on the earth, fornication, vncleannes, the inordinate affection, euill concupiscence, and couetousnes which is idolatrie.
Colossians 3:6	For the which things sake ye wrath of God commeth on the children of disobedience.
Colossians 3:7	Wherein ye also walked once, when ye liued in them.
Colossians 3:8	But now put ye away euen all these things, wrath, anger, maliciousnes, cursed speaking, filthie speaking, out of your mouth.
Colossians 3:9	Lie not one to another, seeing that yee haue put off the olde man with his workes,
Colossians 3:10	And haue put on the newe, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him,
Colossians 3:11	Where is neither Grecian nor Iewe, circumcision nor vncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond, free: But Christ is all, and in all things.
Colossians 3:12	Now therfore as the elect of God holy and beloued, put on the bowels of mercies, kindnesse, humblenesse of minde, meekenesse, long suffering:
Colossians 3:13	Forbearing one another, and forgiuing one another, if any man haue a quarel to another: euen as Christ forgaue, euen so doe ye.
Colossians 3:14	And aboue all these thinges put on loue, which is the bond of perfectnes.
Colossians 3:15	And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which ye are called in one body, and be ye thankfull.
Colossians 3:16	Let the worde of Christ dwell in you plenteously in all wisdome, teaching and admonishing your owne selues, in Psalmes, and hymnes, and spirituall songs, singing with a grace in your hearts to the Lord.
Colossians 3:17	And whatsoeuer ye shall doe, in worde or deede, doe all in the Name of the Lord Iesus, giuing thankes to God euen the Father by him.
Colossians 3:18	Wiues, submit your selues vnto your husbands, as it is comely in the Lord.
Colossians 3:19	Husbands, loue your wiues, and be not bitter vnto them.
Colossians 3:20	Children, obey your parents in all thing for that is well pleasing vnto the Lord.
Colossians 3:21	Fathers, prouoke not your children to anger, least they be discouraged.
Colossians 3:22	Seruants, be obedient vnto them that are your masters according to the flesh, in all things, not with eye seruice as men pleasers, but in singlenes of heart, fearing God.
Colossians 3:23	And whatsoeuer ye doe, doe it heartily, as to the Lord, and not to men,
Colossians 3:24	Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receiue the reward of the inheritance: for ye serue the Lord Christ.
Colossians 3:25	But he that doeth wrong, shall receiue for the wrong that he hath done: and there is no respect of persons.
Colossians 4:1	Ye masters, doe vnto your seruants, that which is iust, and equall, knowing that ye also haue a master in heauen.
Colossians 4:2	Continue in prayer, and watch in the fame with thankesgiuing,
Colossians 4:3	Praying also for vs, that God may open vnto vs the doore of vtterance, to speake ye mysterie of Christ: wherefore I am also in bonds,
Colossians 4:4	That I may vtter it, as it becommeth mee to speake.
Colossians 4:5	Walke wisely towarde them that are without, and redeeme the season.
Colossians 4:6	Let your speach be gracious alwayes, and powdred with salt, that ye may know how to answere euery man.
Colossians 4:7	Tychicus our beloued brother and faithfull minister, and fellow seruant in the Lord, shall declare vnto you my whole state:
Colossians 4:8	Whom I haue sent vnto you for the same purpose that he might know your state, and might comfort your hearts,
Colossians 4:9	With Onesimus a faithfull and a beloued brother, who is one of you. They shall shew you of all things here.
Colossians 4:10	Aristarchus my prison fellow saluteth you, and Marcus, Barnabas cousin (touching whom ye receiued commandements. If he come vnto you, receiue him)
Colossians 4:11	And Iesus which is called Iustus, which are of the circumcision. These onely are my worke fellowes vnto the kingdome of God, which haue bene vnto my consolation.
Colossians 4:12	Epaphras the seruant of Christ, which is one of you, saluteth you, and alwayes striueth for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect, and full in all the will of God.
Colossians 4:13	For I beare him record, that he hath a great zeale for you, and for them of Laodicea, and them of Hierapolis.
Colossians 4:14	Luke the beloued physician greeteth you, and Demas.
Colossians 4:15	Salute the brethren which are of Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the Church which is in his house.
Colossians 4:16	And when this Epistle is read of you, cause that it be read in the Church of the Laodiceans also, and that ye likewise reade the Epistle written from Laodicea.
Colossians 4:17	And say to Archippus, Take heede to the ministerie, that thou hast receiued in the Lord, that thou fulfill it.
Colossians 4:18	The salutation by the hand of me Paul. Remember my bands. Grace be with you, Amen. ‘Written from Rome to the Colossians, and sent by Tychicus, and Onesimus.’

===== BOOK: Daniel =====
Daniel 1:1	In the thirde yeere of the reigne of Iehoiakim king of Iudah, came Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel vnto Ierusalem and besieged it.
Daniel 1:2	And ye Lord gaue Iehoiakim king of Iudah into his hand; with parte of the vessels of the house of God, which he caryed into the land of Shinar, to the house of his god, and he brought the vessels into his gods treasurie.
Daniel 1:3	And the King spake vnto Ashpenaz the master of his Eunuches, that he shoulde bring certeine of the children of Israel, of the Kings seede, and of the princes:
Daniel 1:4	Children in whome was no blemish, but well fauoured, and instruct in all wisedome, and well seene in knowledge, and able to vtter knowledge, and such as were able to stande in the kings palace, and whome they might teach the learning, and the tongue of the Caldeans.
Daniel 1:5	And the King appointed them prouision euery day of a portion of the Kings meate, and and of the wine, which he dranke, so nourishing them three yeere, that at the ende thereof, they might stande before the King.
Daniel 1:6	Nowe among these were certeine of the children of Iudah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael and Azariah.
Daniel 1:7	Vnto whome the chiefe of the Eunuches gaue other names: for hee called Daniel, Belteshazzar, and Hananiah, Shadrach, and Mishael, Meshach, and Azariah, Abednego.
Daniel 1:8	But Daniel had determined in his heart, that hee woulde not defile him selfe with the portion of the Kings meate, nor with the wine which he dranke: therefore he required the chiefe of the Eunuches that he might not defile himselfe.
Daniel 1:9	(Nowe God had brought Daniel into fauour, and tender loue with the chiefe of the Eunuches)
Daniel 1:10	And the chiefe of the Eunuches sayd vnto Daniel, I feare my lord the King, who hath appointed your meate and your drinke: therefore if he see your faces worse liking then the other children, which are of your sort, then shall you make me lose mine head vnto the King.
Daniel 1:11	Then sayd Daniel to Melzar, whome the chiefe of the Eunuches had set ouer Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah,
Daniel 1:12	Proue thy seruants, I beseeche thee, ten dayes, and let them giue vs pulse to eate, and water to drinke.
Daniel 1:13	Then let our countenances bee looked vpon before thee, and the countenances of the children that eate of the portion of the Kings meate: and as thou seest, deale with thy seruantes.
Daniel 1:14	So hee consented to them in this matter, an proued them ten dayes.
Daniel 1:15	And at the end of ten dayes, their countenances appeared fayrer, and in better liking then all the childrens, which did eate the portion of the Kings meate.
Daniel 1:16	Thus Melzar tooke away the portion of their meat, and the wine that they should drinke, and gaue them pulse.
Daniel 1:17	As for these foure children, God gaue them knowledge, and vnderstanding in al learning and wisedome: also he gaue Daniel vnderstanding of all visions and dreames.
Daniel 1:18	Nowe when the time was expired, that the King had appoynted to bring them in, the chiefe of the Eunuches brought them before Nebuchad-nezzar.
Daniel 1:19	And the King communed with them: and among them al was found none like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah: therefore stoode they before the king.
Daniel 1:20	And in all matters of wisedome, and vnderstanding that the King enquired of them, hee founde them tenne times better then all the inchanters and astrologians, that were in all his realme.
Daniel 1:21	And Daniel was vnto the first yeere of king Cyrus.
Daniel 2:1	And in the seconde yeere of the raygne of Nebuchad-nezzar, Nebuchad-nezzar dreamed dreames wherewith his spirite was troubled, and his sleepe was vpon him.
Daniel 2:2	Then the King commanded to call the inchanters, and the astrologians and the sorcerers, and the Caldeans for to shewe the King his dreames: so they came and stoode before the King.
Daniel 2:3	And the King sayde vnto them, I haue dreamed a dreame, and my spirite was troubled to knowe the dreame.
Daniel 2:4	Then spake the Caldeans to the King in the Aramites language, O King, liue for euer: shewe thy seruants thy dreame, and wee shall shewe the interpretation.
Daniel 2:5	And the King answered and sayd to the Caldeans, The thing is gone from me. If ye will not make me vnderstande the dreame with the interpretation thereof, ye shall be drawen in pieces, and your houses shall be made a iakes.
Daniel 2:6	But if yee declare the dreame and the interpretation thereof, ye shall receyue of me gifts and rewardes, and great honour: therefore shewe me the dreame and the interpretation of it.
Daniel 2:7	They answered againe, and sayde, Let the King shewe his seruantes the dreame, and wee will declare the interpretation thereof.
Daniel 2:8	Then the King answered, and sayd, I knowe certeinly that ye would gaine the time, because ye see the thing is gone from me.
Daniel 2:9	But if ye will not declare mee the dreame, there is but one iudgement for you: for ye haue prepared lying and corrupt wordes, to speake before me till the time bee changed: therefore tell me the dreame, that I may knowe, if yee can declare me the interpretation thereof.
Daniel 2:10	Then the Caldeans answered before the King, and sayde, There is no man vpon earth that can declare the Kings matter: yea, there is neither king nor prince nor lorde that asked such things at an inchanter or astrologian or Caldean.
Daniel 2:11	For it is a rare thing that the King requireth, and there is none other that can declare it before the King, except the gods whose dwelling is not with flesh.
Daniel 2:12	For this cause the king was angrie and in great furie, and commanded to destroy all the wise men of Babel.
Daniel 2:13	And when sentence was giuen, the wise men were slayne: and they sought Daniel and his fellowes to be put to death.
Daniel 2:14	Then Daniel answered with counsel and wisedome to Arioch the Kings chiefe stewarde, which was gone foorth to put to death the wise men of Babel.
Daniel 2:15	Yea, he answered and sayde vnto Arioch the kings captaine, Why is the sentence so hastie from the king? Then Arioch declared the thing to Daniel.
Daniel 2:16	So Daniel went and desired the king that he woulde giue him leasure and that he woulde shewe the king the interpretation thereof.
Daniel 2:17	The Daniel went to his house and shewed the matter to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah his companions,
Daniel 2:18	That they should beseech the God of heauen for grace in this secrete, that Daniel and his fellowes should not perish with the rest of ye wise men of Babel.
Daniel 2:19	Then was the secret reueiled vnto Daniel in a vision by night: therefore Daniel praysed the God of heauen.
Daniel 2:20	And Daniel answered and sayde, The Name of God be praysed for euer and euer: for wisedome and strength are his,
Daniel 2:21	And hee changeth the times and seasons: he taketh away kings: he setteth vp kings: he giueth wisedome vnto the wise, and vnderstanding to those that vnderstand.
Daniel 2:22	Hee discouereth the deepe and secrete things: he knoweth what is in darkenes, and the light dwelleth with him.
Daniel 2:23	I thanke thee and prayse thee, O thou God of my fathers, that thou hast giuen mee wisedome and strength, and hast shewed me nowe the thing that wee desired of thee: for thou hast declared vnto vs the kings matter.
Daniel 2:24	Therefore Daniel went vnto Arioch, whome the King had ordeyned to destroy the wise men of Babel: he went and sayde thus vnto him, Destroy not the wise men of Babel, but bring me before the King, and I will declare vnto the King the interpretation.
Daniel 2:25	Then Arioch brought Daniel before the King in all haste, and sayd thus vnto him, I haue found a man of the children of Iudah that were brought captiues, that will declare vnto the King the interpretation.
Daniel 2:26	Then answered the King, and sayde vnto Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, Art thou able to shew me the dreame, which I haue seene, and the interpretation thereof?
Daniel 2:27	Daniel answered in the presence of the King, and sayd, The secret which the King hath demanded, can neither the wise, the astrologians, the inchanters, nor the southsayers declare vnto the King.
Daniel 2:28	But there is a God in heauen that reueileth secrets, and sheweth the King Nebuchad-nezzar what shall bee in the latter dayes. Thy dreame, and the things which thou hast seene in thine heade vpon thy bed, is this.
Daniel 2:29	O King, when thou wast in thy bedde, thoughts came into thy mind, what should come to passe hereafter, and he that reueyleth secretes, telleth thee, what shall come.
Daniel 2:30	As for me, this secret is not shewed mee for any wisedome that I haue, more then any other liuing, but onely to shewe the King the interpretation, and that thou mightest knowe the thoughts of thine heart.
Daniel 2:31	O King, thou sawest, and beholde, there was a great image: this great image whose glory was so excellent, stood before thee, and the forme thereof was terrible.
Daniel 2:32	This images head was of fine golde, his breast and his armes of siluer, his bellie and his thighs of brasse,
Daniel 2:33	His legges of yron, and his feete were part of yron, and part of clay.
Daniel 2:34	Thou beheldest it til a stone was cut without hands, which smote the image vpon his feete, that were of yron and clay, and brake them to pieces.
Daniel 2:35	Then was the yron, the clay, the brasse, the siluer and the golde broken all together, and became like the chaffe of the sommer floures, and the winde caryed them away, that no place was founde for them: and the stone that smote the image, became a great mountaine, and filled the whole earth.
Daniel 2:36	This is the dreame, and we will declare before the King the interpretation thereof.
Daniel 2:37	O King, thou art a king of Kings: for the God of heauen hath giuen thee a kingdome, power, and strength, and glorie.
Daniel 2:38	And in all places where the children of men dwell, the beasts of the fielde, and the foules of the heauen hath he giuen into thine hand, and hath made thee ruler ouer them al: thou art this heade of golde.
Daniel 2:39	And after thee shall rise another kingdome, inferiour to thee, of siluer, and another third kingdome shalbe of brasse, which shall beare rule ouer all the earth.
Daniel 2:40	And the fourth kingdome shall be strong as yron: for as yron breaketh in pieces, and subdueth all things, and as yron bruiseth all these things, so shall it breake in pieces, and bruise all.
Daniel 2:41	Where as thou sawest the feete and toes, parte of potters clay, and part of yron: the kingdome shalbe deuided, but there shalbe in it of the strength of the yron, as thou sawest the yron mixt with the clay, and earth.
Daniel 2:42	And as the toes of the feete were parte of yron, and parte of clay, so shall the kingdome be partly strong, and partly broken.
Daniel 2:43	And where as thou sawest yron mixt with clay and earth, they shall mingle themselues with the seede of men: but they shall not ioyne one with another, as yron can not bee mixed with clay.
Daniel 2:44	And in the dayes of these Kings, shall the God of heauen set vp a kingdome, which shall neuer be destroyed: and this kingdome shall not be giuen to another people, but it shall breake, and destroy al these kingdomes, and it shall stand for euer.
Daniel 2:45	Where as thou sawest, that the stone was cut of the mountaine without handes, and that it brake in pieces the yron, the brasse, the clay, the siluer, and the golde: so the great God hath shewed the King, what shall come to passe hereafter, and the dreame is true, and the interpretation thereof is sure.
Daniel 2:46	Then the King Nebuchad-nezzar fell vpon his face, and bowed himselfe vnto Daniel, and commanded that they should offer meate offrings, and sweete odours vnto him.
Daniel 2:47	Also the King answered vnto Daniel, and said, I know of a trueth that your God is a God of gods, and the Lord of Kings, and the reueiler of secrets, seeing thou couldest open this secret.
Daniel 2:48	So the King made Daniel a great man, and gaue him many and great giftes. Hee made him gouernour ouer the whole prouince of Babel, and chiefe of the rulers, and aboue all the wise men of Babel.
Daniel 2:49	Then Daniel made request to the King, and hee set Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego ouer the charge of the prouince of Babel: but Daniel sate in the gate of the King.
Daniel 3:1	Nebuchad-nezzar the King made an image of gold, whose height was three score cubits, and the breadth thereof sixe cubites: hee set it vp in the plaine of Dura, in the prouince of Babel.
Daniel 3:2	Then Nebuchad-nezzar ye King sent foorth to gather together the nobles, the princes and the dukes, the iudges, the receiuers, the counsellers, the officers, and all the gouernours of the prouinces, that they should come to the dedication of the image, which Nebuchad-nezzar the King had set vp.
Daniel 3:3	So the nobles, princes and dukes, the iudges, the receiuers, the counsellers, the officers, and all the gouernours of the prouinces were assembled vnto the dedicating of the image, that Nebuchad-nezzar the King had set vp: and they stood before the image, which Nebuchad-nezzar had set vp.
Daniel 3:4	Then an herald cried aloude, Be it knowen to you, O people, nations, and languages,
Daniel 3:5	That when ye heare the sound of the cornet, trumpet, harpe, sackebut, psalterie, dulcimer, and all instruments of musike, ye fall downe and worship the golden image, that Nebuchad-nezzar the King hath set vp,
Daniel 3:6	And whosoeuer falleth not downe and worshippeth, shall the same houre bee cast into the middes of an hote fierie fornace.
Daniel 3:7	Therefore assoone as all the people heard the sound of the cornet, trumpet, harpe, sackebut, psalterie, and all instruments of musike, all the people, nations, and languages fell downe, and worshipped the golden image, that Nebuchad-nezzar the King had set vp.
Daniel 3:8	By reason whereof at that same time came men of the Caldeans, and grieuously accused the Iewes.
Daniel 3:9	For they spake and said to the King Nebuchad-nezzar, O King, liue for euer.
Daniel 3:10	Thou, O King, hast made a decree, that euery man that shall heare the sounde of the cornet, trumpet, harpe, sackebut, psalterie, and dulcimer, and all instruments of musike, shall fall downe and worship the golden image,
Daniel 3:11	And whosoeuer falleth not downe, and worshippeth, that he should be cast into the mids of an hote fierie fornace.
Daniel 3:12	There are certeine Iewes whome thou hast set ouer the charge of ye prouince of Babel, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego: these men, O King, haue not regarded thy commandement, neither wil they serue thy gods, nor worship the golden image, that thou hast set vp.
Daniel 3:13	Then Nebuchad-nezzar in his anger and wrath commanded that they should bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego: so these men were brought before the King.
Daniel 3:14	And Nebuchad-nezzar spake, and said vnto them, What disorder? will not you, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego serue my god, nor worship the golden image, that I haue set vp?
Daniel 3:15	Now therefore are ye ready when ye heare the sound of the cornet, trumpet, harpe, sackebut, psalterie, and dulcimer, and all instruments of musike, to fall downe, and worship the image, which I haue made? for if ye worship it not, ye shall be cast immediatly into the middes of an hote fierie fornace: for who is that God, that can deliuer you out of mine handes?
Daniel 3:16	Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to the King, O Nebuchad-nezzar, we are not carefull to answere thee in this matter.
Daniel 3:17	Beholde, our God whom we serue, is able to deliuer vs from the hote fierie fornace, and hee will deliuer vs out of thine hand, O King.
Daniel 3:18	But if not, bee it knowen to thee, O King, that wee will not serue thy gods, nor worship the golden image, which thou hast set vp.
Daniel 3:19	Then was Nebuchad-nezzar full of rage, and the forme of his visage was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego: therefore hee charged and commanded that they should heate the fornace at once seuen times more then it was wont to be heat.
Daniel 3:20	And hee charged the most valiant men of warre that were in his armie, to binde Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the hote fierie fornace.
Daniel 3:21	So these men were bounde in their coates, their hosen, and their clokes, with their other garments, and cast into the middes of the hote fierie fornace.
Daniel 3:22	Therefore, because the Kings commandement was straite, that the fornace should be exceeding hote, the flame of the fire slew those men that brought foorth Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego.
Daniel 3:23	And these three men Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego fell downe bound into the middes of the hote fierie fornace.
Daniel 3:24	Then Nebuchad-nezzar the King was astonied and rose vp in haste, and spake, and saide vnto his counsellers, Did not wee cast three men bound into the middes of the fire? Who answered and said vnto the King, It is true, O King.
Daniel 3:25	And he answered, and said, Loe, I see foure men loose, walking in the middes of the fire, and they haue no hurt, and the forme of the fourth is like the sonne of God.
Daniel 3:26	Then the King Nebuchad-nezzar came neere to the mouth of the hote fierie fornace, and spake and said, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, the seruants of the hie God goe foorth and come hither: so Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego came foorth of the middes of the fire.
Daniel 3:27	Then the nobles, princes and dukes, and the Kings counsellers came together to see these men, because the fire had no power ouer their bodies: for not an heare of their head was burnt, neither was their coates changed, nor any smelll of fire came vpon them.
Daniel 3:28	Wherefore Nebuchad-nezzar spake and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, who hath sent his Angel, and deliuered his seruants, that put their trust in him, and haue changed the Kings commandement, and yeelded their bodies rather then they would serue or worship any god, saue their owne God.
Daniel 3:29	Therefore I make a decree, that euery people, nation, and language, which speake any blasphemie against the God of Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, shalbe drawen in pieces, and their houses shall be made a iakes, because there is no god that can deliuer after this sort.
Daniel 3:30	Then the King promoted Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego in the prouince of Babel.
Daniel 3:31	Nebuchad-nezzar King vnto all people, nations and languages, that dwell in all the world, Peace be multiplied vnto you:
Daniel 3:32	I thought it good to declare the signes and wonders, that the hie God hath wrought toward me.
Daniel 3:33	How great are his signes, and how mightie are his wonders! his kingdome is an euerlasting kingdome, and his dominion is from generation to generation.
Daniel 4:1	I Nebuchad-nezzar being at rest in mine house, and flourishing in my palace,
Daniel 4:2	Saw a dreame, which made me afraide, and the thoughtes vpon my bed, and the visions of mine head troubled me.
Daniel 4:3	Therefore made I a decree, that they should bring all the wise men of Babel before mee, that they might declare vnto me the interpretation of the dreame.
Daniel 4:4	So came the inchanters, the astrologians, the Caldeans and the sothsayers, to whom I tolde the dreame, but they could not shew me the interpretation thereof,
Daniel 4:5	Till at the last Daniel came before mee, (whose name was Belteshazzar, according to the name of my god, which hath the spirite of the holy gods in him) and before him I tolde the dreame, saying,
Daniel 4:6	O Belteshazzar, chiefe of the enchanters, because I know, that the spirit of the holy gods is in thee, and no secret troubleth thee, tell mee the visions of my dreame, that I haue seene and the interpretation thereof.
Daniel 4:7	Thus were the visions of mine head in my bed. And beholde, I sawe a tree in the middes of the earth and the height thereof was great:
Daniel 4:8	A great tree and strong, and the height thereof reached vnto heauen, and the sight thereof to the endes of all the earth.
Daniel 4:9	The boughes thereof were faire and the fruite thereof much, and in it was meate for all: it made a shadow vnder it for the beastes of the fielde, and the foules of the heauen dwelt in the boughes thereof, and all flesh fedde of it.
Daniel 4:10	I sawe in the visions of mine head vpon my bed, and beholde, a watchman and an holy one came downe from heauen,
Daniel 4:11	And cried aloude, and said thus, Hew downe the tree, and breake off his branches: shake off his leaues, and scatter his fruite, that the beastes may flee from vnder it, and the foules from his branches.
Daniel 4:12	Neuerthelesse leaue the stumpe of his rootes in the earth, and with a band of yron and brasse binde it among the grasse of the fielde, and let it be wet with the dewe of heauen, and let his portion be with the beastes among the grasse of the fielde.
Daniel 4:13	Let his heart be changed from mans nature, and let a beasts heart be giuen vnto him, and let seuen times be passed ouer him.
Daniel 4:14	The sentence is according to the decree of the watchmen, and according to the word of the holy ones: the demaunde was answered, to the intent that liuing men may knowe, that the most High hath power ouer the kingdome of men, and giueth it to whomsoeuer he will, and appointeth ouer it the most abiect among men.
Daniel 4:15	This is the dreame, that I King Nebuchad-nezzar haue seene: therefore thou, O Belteshazzar, declare the interpretation thereof: for all the wisemen of my kingdome are not able to shewe mee the interpretation: but thou art able, for the spirit of the holy gods is in thee.
Daniel 4:16	Then Daniel (whose name was Belteshazzar) held his peace by the space of one houre, and his thoughts troubled him, and the King spake and said, Belteshazzar, let neither the dreame, nor the interpretation thereof trouble thee. Belteshazzar answered and saide, My lord, the dreame be to them that hate thee, and the interpretation thereof to thine enemies.
Daniel 4:17	The tree that thou sawest, which was great and mightie, whose height reached vnto the heauen, and the sight thereof through all the world,
Daniel 4:18	Whose leaues were faire and the fruit thereof much, and in it was meate for all, vnder the which the beastes of the fielde dwelt, and vpon whose branches the foules of the heauen did sit,
Daniel 4:19	It is thou, O King, that art great and mightie: for thy greatnesse is growen, and reacheth vnto heauen, and thy dominion to the endes of the earth.
Daniel 4:20	Where as the King sawe a watchman, and an holy one, that came downe from heauen, and said, Hew downe the tree and destroy it, yet leaue the stumpe of the rootes thereof in the earth, and with a bande of yron and brasse binde it among the grasse of the fielde, and let it be wette with the dewe of heauen, and let his portion be with the beastes of the fielde, till seuen times passe ouer him,
Daniel 4:21	This is the interpretation, O King, and it is the decree of the most High, which is come vpon my lord the King,
Daniel 4:22	That they shall driue thee from men, and thy dwelling shalbe with the beasts of the fielde: they shall make thee to eate grasse as the oxen, and they shall wet thee with the dewe of heauen: and seuen times shall passe ouer thee, till thou knowe, that the most High beareth rule ouer the kingdome of men, and giueth it to whom so euer he will.
Daniel 4:23	Where as they sayd, that one should leaue the stumpe of the tree rootes, thy kingdome shall remaine vnto thee: after that, thou shalt knowe, that the heauens haue the rule.
Daniel 4:24	Wherefore, O King, let my counsell be acceptable vnto thee, and breake off thy sinnes by righteousnes, and thine iniquities by mercy toward the poore: lo, let there be an healing of thine errour.
Daniel 4:25	All these things shall come vpon the King Nebuchad-nezzar.
Daniel 4:26	At the end of twelue moneths, he walked in the royall palace of Babel.
Daniel 4:27	And the King spake and sayde, Is not this great Babel, that I haue built for the house of the kingdome by the might of my power, and for the honour of my maiestie?
Daniel 4:28	While the worde was in the Kings mouth, a voyce came downe from heauen, saying, O King Nebuchad-nezzar, to thee be it spoken, Thy kingdome is departed from thee,
Daniel 4:29	And they shall driue thee from men, and thy dwelling shalbe with the beastes of the fielde: they shall make thee to eate grasse, as the oxen, and seuen times shall passe ouer thee, vntill thou knowest, that the most High beareth rule ouer the kingdome of men, and giueth it vnto whomsoeuer he will.
Daniel 4:30	The very same houre was this thing fulfilled vpon Nebuchad-nezzar, and hee was driuen from men, and did eate grasse as the oxen, and his body was wet with the dewe of heauen, till his heares were growen as eagles feathers, and his nailes like birds clawes.
Daniel 4:31	And at the ende of these dayes I Nebuchad-nezzar lift vp mine eyes vnto heauen, and mine vnderstanding was restored vnto me, and I gaue thankes vnto the most High, and I praysed and honoured him that liueth for euer, whose power is an euerlasting power, and his kingdome is from generation to generation.
Daniel 4:32	And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing: and according to his will he worketh in the armie of heauen, and in the inhabitants of the earth: and none can stay his hand, nor say vnto him, What doest thou?
Daniel 4:33	At the same time was mine vnderstanding restored vnto me, and I returned to the honour of my kingdome: my glory and my beautie was restored vnto me, and my counsellours and my princes sought vnto me, and I was established in my kingdome, and my glory was augmented toward me.
Daniel 4:34	Now therefore I Nebuchad-nezzar prayse and extoll and magnifie the King of heauen, whose workes are all trueth, and his wayes iudgement, and those that walke in pride, he is able to abase.
Daniel 5:1	King Belshazzar made a great feast to a thousand of his princes, and dranke wine before the thousand.
Daniel 5:2	And Belshazzar whiles he tasted the wine, commanded to bring him the golden and siluer vessels, which his father Nebuchad-nezzar had brought from the Temple in Ierusalem, that the King and his princes, his wiues, and his concubines might drinke therein.
Daniel 5:3	Then were brought the golden vessels, that were taken out of the Temple of the Lords house at Ierusalem, and the King and his princes, his wiues and his concubines dranke in them.
Daniel 5:4	They drunke wine and praysed the gods of golde, and of siluer, of brasse, of yron, of wood and of stone.
Daniel 5:5	At the same houre appeared fingers of a mans hand, which wrote ouer against the candlesticke vpon the plaister of the wall of ye Kings palace, and the King sawe the palme of the hand that wrote.
Daniel 5:6	Then the Kings countenance was changed, and his thoughtes troubled him, so that the ioynts of his loynes were loosed, and his knees smote one against the other.
Daniel 5:7	Wherefore the King cryed loude, that they should bring the astrologians, the Caldeans and the soothsayers. And the King spake, and sayd to the wise men of Babel, Whosoeuer can reade this writing, and declare me the interpretation thereof, shalbe clothed with purple, and shall haue a chaine of golde about his necke, and shall be the third ruler in the kingdome.
Daniel 5:8	Then came all the Kings wise men, but they could neither reade the writing, nor shewe the King the interpretation.
Daniel 5:9	Then was King Belshazzar greatly troubled, and his countenance was changed in him, and his princes were astonied.
Daniel 5:10	Now the Queene by reason of the talke of the King, and his princes came into the banket house, and the Queene spake, and sayd, O King, liue for euer: let not thy thoughtes trouble thee, nor let thy countenance be changed.
Daniel 5:11	There is a man in thy kingdome, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods, and in the dayes of thy father light and vnderstanding and wisdome like the wisdome of the gods, was found in him: whom the King Nebuchad-nezzar thy father, the King, I say, thy father, made chiefe of the enchanters, astrologians, Caldeans, and soothsayers,
Daniel 5:12	Because a more excellent spirit, and knowledge, and vnderstanding (for hee did expound dreames, and declare hard sentences, and dissolued doubtes) were founde in him, euen in Daniel, whome the King named Belteshazzar: nowe let Daniel be called, and hee will declare the interpretation.
Daniel 5:13	Then was Daniel brought before the King, and the King spake and sayd vnto Daniel, Art thou that Daniel, which art of the children of the captiuitie of Iudah, whom my father the King brought out of Iewrie?
Daniel 5:14	Now I haue heard of thee, that the spirit of the holy gods is in thee, and that light and vnderstanding and excellent wisdome is found in thee.
Daniel 5:15	Now therefore, wisemen and astrologians haue bene brought before me, that they should reade this writing, and shewe me the interpretation thereof: but they could not declare the interpretation of the thing.
Daniel 5:16	Then heard I of thee, that thou couldest shewe interpretations, and dissolue doutes: nowe if thou canst reade the writing, and shew me the interpretation thereof, thou shalt be clothed with purple, and shalt haue a chaine of golde about thy necke, and shalt be the third ruler in the kingdome.
Daniel 5:17	Then Daniel answered, and sayd before the King, Keepe thy rewards to thy selfe, and giue thy giftes to another: yet I will reade the writing vnto the King, and shew him the interpretation.
Daniel 5:18	O King, heare thou, The most high God gaue vnto Nebuchad-nezzar thy father a kingdome, and maiestie, and honour and glory.
Daniel 5:19	And for the maiestie that he gaue him, all people, nations, and languages trembled, and feared before him: he put to death whom he would: he smote whome he would: whome he would he set vp, and whome he would he put downe.
Daniel 5:20	But when his heart was puft vp, and his minde hardened in pride, hee was deposed from his kingly throne, and they tooke his honour from him.
Daniel 5:21	And hee was driuen from the sonnes of men, and his heart was made like the beastes, and his dwelling was with the wilde asses: they fed him with grasse like oxen, and his body was wet with the dewe of the heauen, till he knewe, that the most high God bare rule ouer the kingdome of men, and that he appointeth ouer it, whomsoeuer he pleaseth.
Daniel 5:22	And thou his sonne, O Belshazzar, hast not humbled thine heart, though thou knewest all these things,
Daniel 5:23	But hast lift thy selfe vp against the Lord of heauen, and they haue brought the vessels of his House before thee, and thou and thy princes, thy wiues and thy concubines haue drunke wine in them, and thou hast praysed the gods of siluer and golde, of brasse, yron, wood and stone, which neither see, neither heare, nor vnderstand: and the God in whose hand thy breath is and all thy wayes, him hast thou not glorified.
Daniel 5:24	Then was the palme of the hand sent from him, and hath written this writing.
Daniel 5:25	And this is the writing that he hath written, MENE, MENE, TEKEL UPHARSIN.
Daniel 5:26	This is the interpretation of the thing, MENE, God hath nombred thy kingdome, and hath finished it.
Daniel 5:27	TEKEL, thou art wayed in the balance, and art found too light.
Daniel 5:28	PERES, thy kingdome is deuided, and giuen to the Medes and Persians.
Daniel 5:29	Then at the commandement of Belshazzar they clothed Daniel with purple, and put a chaine of golde about his necke, and made a proclamation concerning him that he should be the third ruler in the kingdome.
Daniel 5:30	The same night was Belshazzar the King of the Caldeans slaine.
Daniel 5:31	And Darius of the Medes tooke the kingdome, being threescore and two yeere olde.
Daniel 6:1	It pleased Darius to set ouer the kingdome an hundreth and twentie gouernours, which should be ouer the whole kingdome,
Daniel 6:2	And ouer these, three rulers (of whome Daniel was one) that the gouernours might giue accompts vnto them, and the King should haue no domage.
Daniel 6:3	Now this Daniel was preferred aboue the rulers and gouernours, because the spirit was excellent in him, and the King thought to set him ouer the whole realme.
Daniel 6:4	Wherefore the rulers and gouernours sought an occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdome: but they could finde none occasion nor fault: for he was so faithfull that there was no blame nor fault found in him.
Daniel 6:5	Then sayd these men, We shall not finde an occasion against this Daniel, except we finde it against him concerning the Law of his God.
Daniel 6:6	Therefore the rulers and these gouernours went together to the King, and sayde thus vnto him, King Darius, liue for euer.
Daniel 6:7	All the rulers of thy kingdome, the officers and gouernours, the counsellers, and dukes haue consulted together to make a decree for the King and to establish a statute, that whosoeuer shall aske a petition of any god or man for thirtie dayes saue of thee, O King, he shalbe cast into the denne of lyons.
Daniel 6:8	Nowe, O King, confirme the decree, and seale the writing, that it be not changed according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not.
Daniel 6:9	Wherefore King Darius sealed the writing and the decree.
Daniel 6:10	Now when Daniel vnderstood that he had sealed the writing, hee went into his house, and his window being open in his chamber toward Ierusalem, he kneeled vpon his knees three times a day, and prayed and praysed his God, as he did aforetime.
Daniel 6:11	Then these men assembled, and founde Daniel praying, and making supplication vnto his God.
Daniel 6:12	So they came and, spake vnto the King concerning the Kings decree, Hast thou not sealed the decree, that euery man that shall make a request to any god or man within thirtie dayes, saue to thee, O King, shall be cast into the denne of lyons? The King answered, and sayd, The thing is true, according to the Lawe of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not.
Daniel 6:13	Then answered they, and sayd vnto the King, This Daniel which is of the children of the captiuitie of Iudah, regardeth not thee, O King, nor the decree, that thou hast sealed, but maketh his petition three times a day.
Daniel 6:14	When the King heard these wordes, hee was sore displeased with himselfe, and set his heart on Daniel, to deliuer him: and he laboured till the sunne went downe, to deliuer him.
Daniel 6:15	Then these men assembled vnto the King, and sayde vnto ye King, Vnderstand, O King, that the lawe of the Medes and Persians is, that no decree nor statute which the King confirmeth, may be altered.
Daniel 6:16	Then the King commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him into the denne of lyons: now the King spake, and said vnto Daniel, Thy God, whome thou alway seruest, euen he will deliuer thee.
Daniel 6:17	And a stone was brought, and layed vpon the mouth of the denne, and the King sealed it with his owne signet, and with the signet of his princes, that the purpose might not be changed, concerning Daniel.
Daniel 6:18	Then the King went vnto his palace, and remained fasting, neither were the instruments of musike brought before him, and his sleepe went from him.
Daniel 6:19	Then the King arose early in the morning, and went in all haste vnto the denne of lyons.
Daniel 6:20	And when he came to the denne, he cryed with a lamentable voyce vnto Daniel: and the King spake, and saide to Daniel, O Daniel, the seruant of ye liuing God, is not thy God (whom thou alway seruest) able to deliuer thee from the lyons?
Daniel 6:21	Then saide Daniel vnto the King, O King, liue for euer.
Daniel 6:22	My God hath sent his Angel and hath shut the lyons mouthes, that they haue not hurt mee: for my iustice was founde out before him: and vnto thee, O King, I haue done no hurt.
Daniel 6:23	Then was the King exceeding glad for him, and commanded that they should take Daniel out of the denne: so Daniel was brought out of the denne, and no maner of hurt was found vpon him, because he beleeued in his God.
Daniel 6:24	And by the commandement of the King these me which had accused Daniel, were brought, and were cast into the denne of lions, euen they, their children, and their wiues: and the lyons had the mastry of them, and brake all their bones a pieces, or euer they came at the groud of the denne.
Daniel 6:25	Afterwarde King Darius wrote, Vnto all people, nations and languages, that dwel in all the world: Peace be multiplied vnto you.
Daniel 6:26	I make a decree that in all the dominion of my kingdome, men tremble and feare before the God of Daniel: for he is the liuing God, and remayneth for euer: and his kingdome shall not perish, and his dominion shalbe euerlasting.
Daniel 6:27	Hee rescueth and deliuereth, and hee worketh signes and wonders in heauen and in earth, who hath deliuered Daniel from the power of the lyons.
Daniel 6:28	So this Daniel prospered in the reigne of Darius and in the reigne of Cyrus of Persia.
Daniel 7:1	In the first yeere of Belshazzar King of Babel, Daniel sawe a dreame, and there were visions in his head, vpon his bed: then he wrote the dreame, and declared the summe of the matter.
Daniel 7:2	Daniel spake and saide, I sawe in my vision by night, and behold, the foure windes of the heauen stroue vpon the great sea:
Daniel 7:3	And foure great beastes came vp from the sea one diuers from another.
Daniel 7:4	The first was as a lyon, and had eagles wings: I beheld, til the wings thereof were pluckt of, and it was lifted vp from the earth, and set vpon his feete as a man, and a mans heart was giuen him.
Daniel 7:5	And beholde, another beast which was the second, was like a beare and stood vpon the one side: and hee had three ribbes in his mouth betweene his teeth, and they saide thus vnto him, Arise and deuoure much flesh.
Daniel 7:6	After this I behelde, and loe, there was an other like a leopard, which had vpon his backe foure wings of a foule: the beast had also foure heads, and dominion was giuen him.
Daniel 7:7	After this I saw in the visions by night, and beholde, the fourth beast was fearefull and terrible and very strong. It had great yron teeth: it deuoured and brake in pieces and stamped the residue vnder his feete: and it was vnlike to the beasts that were before it: for it had ten hornes.
Daniel 7:8	As I considered the hornes, beholde, there came vp among them another litle horne, before whome there were three of the first hornes pluckt away: and behold, in this horne were eyes like the eyes of man, and a mouth speaking presumptuous things.
Daniel 7:9	I behelde, till the thrones were set vp, and the Ancient of dayes did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the heare of his head like the pure wooll: his throne was like the fierie flame, and his wheeles as burning fire.
Daniel 7:10	A fierie streame yssued, and came foorth from before him: thousand thousandes ministred vnto him, and tenne thousand thousands stoode before him: the iudgement was set, and the bookes opened.
Daniel 7:11	Then I behelde, because of the voyce of the presumptuous wordes, which the horne spake: I behelde, euen till the beast was slaine, and his body destroyed, and giuen to the burning fire.
Daniel 7:12	As concerning the other beastes, they had taken away their dominion: yet their liues were prolonged for a certaine time and season.
Daniel 7:13	As I behelde in visions by night, behold, one like the sonne of man came in the cloudes of heauen, and approched vnto the Ancient of dayes, and they brought him before him.
Daniel 7:14	And he gaue him dominion, and honour, and a kingdome, that all people, nations and languages should serue him: his dominion is an euerlasting dominion, which shall neuer bee taken away: and his kingdome shall neuer be destroyed.
Daniel 7:15	I Daniel was troubled in my spirit, in the middes of my body, and the visions of mine head made me afraide.
Daniel 7:16	Therefore I came vnto one of them that stoode by, and asked him the trueth of all this: so he tolde me, and shewed me the interpretation of these things.
Daniel 7:17	These great beastes which are foure, are foure Kings, which shall arise out of the earth,
Daniel 7:18	And they shall take the kingdome of the Saintes of the most High, and possesse the kingdome for euer, euen for euer and euer.
Daniel 7:19	After this, I woulde knowe the trueth of the fourth beast, which was so vnlike to all the others, very fearefull, whose teeth were of yron, and his nailes of brasse: which deuoured, brake in pieces, and stamped the residue vnder his feete.
Daniel 7:20	Also to know of the tenne hornes that were in his head, and of the other which came vp, before whome three fell, and of the horne that had eyes, and of the mouth that spake presumptuous thinges, whose looke was more stoute then his fellowes.
Daniel 7:21	I beheld, and the same horne made battel against the Saintes, yea, and preuailed against them,
Daniel 7:22	Vntill the Ancient of dayes came, and iudgement was giuen to the Saintes of the most High: and the time approched, that the Saintes possessed the kingdome.
Daniel 7:23	Then he said, The fourth beast shall be the fourth kingdome in the earth, which shall be vnlike to all the kingdomes, and shall deuoure the whole earth, and shall treade it downe and breake it in pieces.
Daniel 7:24	And the ten hornes out of this kingdome are tenne Kings that shall rise: and an other shall rise after them, and he shall be vnlike to the first, and he shall subdue three Kings,
Daniel 7:25	And shall speake wordes against the most High, and shall consume the Saintes of the most High, and thinke that he may change times and lawes, and they shalbe giuen into his hand, vntill a time, and times and the deuiding of time.
Daniel 7:26	But the iudgement shall sit, and they shall take away his dominion, to consume and destroy it vnto the ende.
Daniel 7:27	And the kingdome, and dominion, and the greatnesse of the kingdome vnder the whole heauen shalbe giue to the holy people of the most High, whose kingdome is an euerlasting kingdome and all powers shall serue and obey him.
Daniel 7:28	Euen this is the ende of the matter, I Daniel had many cogitations which troubled mee, and my countenance changed in me: but I kept the matter in mine heart.
Daniel 8:1	In the thirde yeere of the reigne of King Belshazzar, a vision appeared vnto mee, euen vnto me Daniel, after that which appeared vnto mee at the first.
Daniel 8:2	And I saw in a vision, and when I sawe it, I was in the palace of Shushan, which is in the prouince of Elam, and in a vision me thought I was by the riuer of Vlai.
Daniel 8:3	Then I looked vp and sawe, and beholde, there stoode before the riuer a ramme, which had two hornes: and these two hornes were hie: but one was hier then another, and the hyest came vp last.
Daniel 8:4	I sawe the ramme pusshing against ye West, and against the North, and against the South: so that no beastes might stande before him, nor could deliuer out of his hand, but he did what he listed, and became great.
Daniel 8:5	And as I considered, beholde, a goate came from the West ouer the whole earth, and touched not the grounde: and this goate had an horne that appeared betweene his eyes.
Daniel 8:6	And he came vnto the ramme that had the two hornes, whome I had seene standing by the riuer, and ranne vnto him in his fierce rage.
Daniel 8:7	And I saw him come vnto the ramme, and being moued against him, he smote the ramme, and brake his two hornes: and there was no power in the ramme to stand against him, but he cast him downe to the grounde, and stamped vpon him, and there was none that coulde deliuer the ramme out of his power.
Daniel 8:8	Therefore the goate waxed exceeding great, and when he was at the strongest, his great horne was broken: and for it came vp foure that appeared toward the foure windes of ye heauen.
Daniel 8:9	And out of one of them came foorth a litle horne, which waxed very great toward the South, and toward the East, and towarde the pleasant land.
Daniel 8:10	Yea, it grewe vp vnto the hoste of heauen, and it cast downe some of the hoste, and of the starres to the ground, and trode vpon them,
Daniel 8:11	And extolled himselfe against the prince of the hoste from whome the dayly sacrifice was taken away, and the place of his Sanctuarie was cast downe.
Daniel 8:12	And a time shall be giuen him ouer the dayly sacrifice for the iniquitie: and it shall cast downe the trueth to the ground, and thus shall it doe, and prosper.
Daniel 8:13	Then I heard one of the Saints speaking, and one of the Saints spake vnto a certaine one, saying, Howe long shall endure the vision of the dayly sacrifice, and the iniquitie of the desolation to treade both the Sanctuarie and the armie vnder foote?
Daniel 8:14	And he answered me, Vnto the euening and the morning, two thousand and three hundreth: then shall the Sanctuarie be clensed.
Daniel 8:15	Nowe when I Daniel had seene the vision, and sought for the meaning, beholde, there stoode before me like the similitude of a man.
Daniel 8:16	And I heard a mans voyce betweene the bankes of Vlai, which called, and sayde, Gabriel, make this man to vnderstand the vision.
Daniel 8:17	So he came where I stood: and when hee came, I was afraide, and fell vpon my face: but he sayd vnto me, Vnderstand, O sonne of man: for in the last time shalbe the vision.
Daniel 8:18	Nowe as he was speaking vnto me, I being a sleepe fell on my face to the ground: but he touched me, and set me vp in my place.
Daniel 8:19	And he sayde, Beholde, I will shewe thee what shalbe in the last wrath: for in the end of the time appointed it shall come.
Daniel 8:20	The ramme which thou sawest hauing two hornes, are the Kings of the Medes and Persians.
Daniel 8:21	And the goate is the King of Grecia, and the great horne that is betweene his eyes, is the first King.
Daniel 8:22	And that that is broken, and foure stoode vp for it, are foure kingdomes, which shall stand vp of that nation, but not in his strength.
Daniel 8:23	And in the end of their kingdome, when the rebellious shalbe consumed, a King of fierce countenance, and vnderstanding darke sentences, shall stand vp.
Daniel 8:24	And his power shalbe mightie, but not in his strength: and hee shall destroy wonderfully, and shall prosper, and practise, and shall destroy the mightie, and the holy people.
Daniel 8:25	And through his policie also, hee shall cause craft to prosper in his hand, and he shall extoll himselfe in his heart, and by peace shall destroy many: hee shall also stande vp against the prince of princes, but he shalbe broken downe without hand.
Daniel 8:26	And the vision of the euening and the morning, which is declared, is true: therefore seale thou vp the vision, for it shall be after many dayes.
Daniel 8:27	And I Daniel was striken and sicke certaine dayes: but when I rose vp, I did the Kings busines, and I was astonished at the vision, but none vnderstood it.
Daniel 9:1	In the first yeere of Darius the sonne of Ahashuerosh, of the seede of the Medes, which was made King ouer the realme of the Caldeans,
Daniel 9:2	Euen in the first yeere of his reigne, I Daniel vnderstood by bookes the nomber of the yeeres, whereof the Lord had spoken vnto Ieremiah the Prophet, that he would accomplish seuentie yeeres in the desolation of Ierusalem.
Daniel 9:3	And I turned my face vnto the Lord God, and sought by prayer and supplications with fasting and sackcloth and ashes.
Daniel 9:4	And I prayed vnto the Lord my God, and made my confession, saying, Oh Lord God, which art great and fearefull, and keepest couenant and mercy toward them which loue thee, and toward them that keepe thy commandements,
Daniel 9:5	We haue sinned, and haue committed iniquitie and haue done wickedly, yea, we haue rebelled, and haue departed from thy precepts, and from thy iudgements.
Daniel 9:6	For we would not obey thy seruants the Prophets, which spake in thy Name to our Kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, and to all the people of the land.
Daniel 9:7	O Lord, righteousnes belongeth vnto thee, and vnto vs open shame, as appeareth this day vnto euery man of Iudah, and to the inhabitants of Ierusalem: yea, vnto all Israel, both neere and farre off, through all the countreys, whither thou hast driuen them, because of their offences, that they haue committed against thee.
Daniel 9:8	O Lord, vnto vs apperteineth open shame, to our Kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we haue sinned against thee.
Daniel 9:9	Yet compassion and forgiuenesse is in the Lord our God, albeit we haue rebelled against him.
Daniel 9:10	For we haue not obeyed the voyce of the Lord our God, to walke in his lawes, which he had laide before vs by the ministerie of his seruants the Prophets.
Daniel 9:11	Yea, all Israel haue transgressed thy Lawe, and are turned backe, and haue not heard thy voyce: therefore the curse is powred vpon vs, and the othe that is written in the Lawe of Moses the seruant of God, because we haue sinned against him.
Daniel 9:12	And he hath confirmed his wordes, which he spake against vs, and against our iudges that iudged vs, by bringing vpon vs a great plague: for vnder the whole heauen hath not bene the like, as hath bene brought vpon Ierusalem.
Daniel 9:13	All this plague is come vpon vs, as it is written in the Lawe of Moses: yet made we not our prayer before the Lord our God, that we might turne from our iniquities and vnderstand thy trueth.
Daniel 9:14	Therefore hath the Lord made ready the plague, and brought it vpon vs: for the Lord our God is righteous in all his works which he doeth: for we would not heare his voyce.
Daniel 9:15	And nowe, O Lord our God, that hast brought thy people out of the land of Egypt with a mightie hand, and hast gotten thee renoume, as appeareth this day, we haue sinned, we haue done wickedly.
Daniel 9:16	O Lord, according to all thy righteousnes, I beseech thee, let thine anger and thy wrath be turned away from thy citie Ierusalem thine holy Mountaine: for because of our sinnes, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Ierusalem and thy people are a reproche to all that are about vs.
Daniel 9:17	Nowe therefore, O our God, heare the prayer of thy serunant, and his supplications, and cause thy face to shine vpon thy Sanctuarie, that lyeth waste for the Lords sake.
Daniel 9:18	O my God, encline thine eare and heare: open thine eyes, and beholde our desolations, and the citie whereupon thy Name is called: for we doe not present our supplications before thee for our owne righteousnes, but for thy great tender mercies.
Daniel 9:19	O Lord, heare, O Lord forgiue, O Lord consider, and doe it: deferre not, for thine owne sake, O my God: for thy Name is called vpon thy citie, and vpon thy people.
Daniel 9:20	And whiles I was speaking and praying, and confessing my sinne, and the sinne of my people Israel, and did present my supplication before the Lord my God, for the holy Mountaine of my God,
Daniel 9:21	Yea, while I was speaking in prayer, euen the man Gabriel, whome I had seene before in the vision, came flying, and touched mee about the time of the euening oblation.
Daniel 9:22	And he informed me, and talked with me, and sayd, O Daniel, I am now come forth to giue thee knowledge and vnderstanding.
Daniel 9:23	At the beginning of thy supplications the commandement came foorth, and I am come to shewe thee, for thou art greatly beloued: therefore vnderstande the matter and consider the vision.
Daniel 9:24	Seuentie weekes are determined vpon thy people and vpon thine holy citie, to finish the wickednes, and to seale vp the sinnes, and to reconcile the inquitie, and to bring in euerlasting righteousnesse, and to seale vp the vision and prophecie, and to anoynt the most Holy.
Daniel 9:25	Knowe therefore and vnderstande, that from the going foorth of the commandement to bring againe the people, and to builde Ierusalem, vnto Messiah the prince, shall be seuen weekes and threescore and two weekes, and the streete shalbe built againe, and the wall euen in a troublous time.
Daniel 9:26	And after threescore and two weekes, shall Messiah be slaine, and shall haue nothing,, and the people of the prince that shall come, shall destroy the citie and the Sanctuarie, and the end thereof shalbe with a flood: and vnto the end of the battell it shalbe destroyed by desolations.
Daniel 9:27	And he shall confirme the couenant with many for one weeke: and in the middes of the weeke he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease, and for the ouerspreading of the abominations, he shall make it desolate, euen vntill the consummation determined shalbe powred vpon the desolate.
Daniel 10:1	In the third yeere of Cyrus King of Persia, a thing was reueiled vnto Daniel (whose name was called Belteshazzar) and the worde was true, but the time appointed was long, and he vnderstood the thing, and had vnderstanding of the vision.
Daniel 10:2	At the same time I Daniel was in heauines for three weekes of dayes.
Daniel 10:3	I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth, neither did I anoint my selfe at all, till three weekes of dayes were fulfilled.
Daniel 10:4	And in the foure and twentieth day of the first moneth, as I was by the side of that great riuer, euen Hiddekel,
Daniel 10:5	And I lift vp mine eyes, and looked, and beholde, there was a man clothed in linnen, whose loynes were girded with fine golde of Vphaz.
Daniel 10:6	His body also was like the Chrysolite, and his face (to looke vpon) like the lightning, and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his armes and his feete were like in colour to polished brasse, and the voyce of his wordes was like the voyce of a multitude.
Daniel 10:7	And I Daniel alone sawe the vision: for the men that were with me, sawe not the vision: but a great feare fell vpon them, so that they fled away and hid themselues.
Daniel 10:8	Therefore I was left alone, and sawe this great vision, and there remained no strength in me: for my strength was turned in me into corruption, and I reteined no power.
Daniel 10:9	Yet heard I the voyce of his wordes: and when I heard the voyce of his wordes, I slept on my face: and my face was toward the ground.
Daniel 10:10	And behold, an hand touched me, which set me vp vpon my knees and vpon the palmes of mine hands.
Daniel 10:11	And he sayde vnto me, O Daniel, a man greatly beloued, vnderstand the wordes that I speake vnto thee, and stand in thy place: for vnto thee am I nowe sent. And when hee had sayde this worde vnto me, I stood trembling.
Daniel 10:12	Then sayd he vnto me, Feare not, Daniel: for from the first day that thou diddest set thine heart to vnderstand, and to humble thy selfe before thy God, thy wordes were heard, and I am come for thy wordes.
Daniel 10:13	But the prince of the kingdome of Persia withstoode me one and twentie dayes: but loe, Michael one of the chiefe princes, came to helpe me, and I remained there by the Kings of Persia.
Daniel 10:14	Nowe I am come to shewe thee what shall come to thy people in the latter dayes: for yet the vision is for many dayes.
Daniel 10:15	And when he spake these wordes vnto me, I set my face towarde the grounde, and helde my tongue.
Daniel 10:16	And beholde, one like the similitude of the sonnes of man touched my lippes: then I opened my mouth, and spake, and said vnto him that stoode before me, O my Lord, by the vision my sorowes are returned vpon me, and I haue reteined no strength.
Daniel 10:17	For howe can the seruant of this my Lord talke with my Lord being such one? for as for me, straight way there remained no strength in me, neither is there breath left in me.
Daniel 10:18	Then there came againe, and touched me one like the appearance of a man, and he strengthened me,
Daniel 10:19	And said, O man, greatly beloued, feare not: peace be vnto thee: be strong and of good courage. And when he had spoken vnto me, I was strengthened, and saide, Let my Lord speake: for thou hast strengthened me.
Daniel 10:20	Then saide he, Knowest thou wherefore I am come vnto thee? but nowe will I returne to fight with the prince of Persia: and when I am gone forth, loe, the prince of Grecia shall come.
Daniel 10:21	But I will shew thee that which is decreeed in the Scripture of trueth: and there is none that holdeth with me in these things, but Michael your prince.
Daniel 11:1	Also I, in ye first yere of Darius of ye Medes, euen I stood to incourage and to strengthen him.
Daniel 11:2	And now wil I shew thee ye trueth, Behold, there shall stand vp yet three Kings in Persia, and the fourth shall be farre richer then they all: and by his strength, and by his riches he shall stirre vp all against the realme of Grecia.
Daniel 11:3	But a mightie King shall stand vp, that shall rule with great dominion, and doe according to his pleasure.
Daniel 11:4	And when he shall stand vp, his kingdome shall be broken, and shall be deuided towarde the foure windes of heauen: and not to his posteritie, nor according to his dominion, which he ruled: for his kingdome shall be pluckt vp, euen to be for others besides those.
Daniel 11:5	And ye King of ye South shalbe mightie, and one of his princes, and shall preuaile against him, and beare rule: his dominio shalbe a great dominion.
Daniel 11:6	And in the ende of yeeres they shalbe ioyned together: for the Kings daughter of ye South shall come to the King of the North to make an agreement, but she shall not reteine the power of the arme, neither shall he continue, nor his arme: but she shall be deliuered to death, and they that brought her, and he that begate her, and he that comforted her in these times.
Daniel 11:7	But out of the bud of her rootes shall one stand vp in his stead, which shall come with an armie, and shall enter into the fortresse of the King of the North, and doe with them as he list, and shall preuaile,
Daniel 11:8	And shall also carie captiues into Egypt their gods with their molten images, and with their precious vessels of siluer and of golde, and he shall continue more yeeres then the King of the North.
Daniel 11:9	So the King of ye South shall come into his kingdome, and shall returne into his owne land.
Daniel 11:10	Wherefore his sonnes shall be stirred vp, and shall assemble a mightie great armie: and one shall come, and ouerflowe, and passe through: then shall he returne, and be stirred vp at his fortresse.
Daniel 11:11	And the King of the South shall be angrie, and shall come foorth, and fight with him, euen with the King of the North: for he shall set foorth a great multitude, and the multitude shall be giuen into his hand.
Daniel 11:12	Then the multitude shall be proude, and their heart shall be lifted vp: for hee shall cast downe thousands: but he shall not still preuaile.
Daniel 11:13	For the King of the North shall returne, and shall set foorth a greater multitude then afore, and shall come foorth (after certeine yeeres) with a mightie armie, and great riches.
Daniel 11:14	And at the same time there shall many stand vp against the King of the South: also the rebellious children of thy people shall exalt them selues to establish the vision, but they shall fall.
Daniel 11:15	So the King of the North shall come, and cast vp a mount, and take the strong citie: and the armes of the South shall not resist, neither his chosen people, neither shall there be any strength to withstand.
Daniel 11:16	But he that shall come, shall doe vnto him as he list, and none shall stand against him: and he shall stand in the pleasant land, which by his hand shalbe consumed.
Daniel 11:17	Againe he shall set his face to enter with the power of his whole kingdome, and his confederates with him: thus shall he doe, and he shall giue him the daughter of women, to destroy her: but she shall not stande on his side, neither bee for him.
Daniel 11:18	After this shall he turne his face vnto the yles, and shall take many, but a prince shall cause his shame to light vpon him, beside that he shall cause his owne shame to turne vpon himselfe.
Daniel 11:19	For he shall turne his face toward the fortes of his owne land: but he shall be ouerthrowen and fall, and be no more founde.
Daniel 11:20	Then shall stand vp in his place in the glorie of the kingdome, one that shall raise taxes: but after fewe dayes he shall be destroyed, neither in wrath, nor in battell.
Daniel 11:21	And in his place shall stand vp a vile person, to whom they shall not giue the honour of the kingdome: but he shall come in peaceably, and obteine the kingdome by flatteries.
Daniel 11:22	And the armes shall be ouerthrowen with a flood before him, and shall be broken: and also the prince of the couenant.
Daniel 11:23	And after the league made with him, he shall worke deceitfully: for he shall come vp, and ouercome with a small people.
Daniel 11:24	He shall enter into the quiet and plentifull prouince, and he shall doe that which his fathers haue not done, nor his fathers fathers: he shall deuide among them the pray and the spoyle, and the substance, yea, and he shall forecast his deuises against the strong holdes, euen for a time.
Daniel 11:25	Also he shall stirre vp his power and his courage against the King of the South with a great armie, and the King of the South shall be stirred vp to battell with a very great and mightie armie: but he shall not stand: for they shall forecast and practise against him.
Daniel 11:26	Yea, they that feede of the portion of his meate, shall destroy him: and his armie shall ouerflowe: and many shall fall, and be slaine.
Daniel 11:27	And both these Kings hearts shall be to do mischiefe, and they shall talke of deceite at one table: but it shall not auaile: for yet the ende shall be at the time appointed.
Daniel 11:28	Then shall he returne into his land with great substance: for his heart shall be against the holy couenant: so shall he doe and returne to his owne land.
Daniel 11:29	At the time appointed he shall returne, and come toward the South: but the last shall not be as the first.
Daniel 11:30	For the shippes of Chittim shall come against him: therefore he shalbe sorie and returne, and freat against the holy couenant: so shall he doe, he shall euen returne and haue intelligence with them that forsake the holy couenant.
Daniel 11:31	And armes shall stand on his part, and they shall pollute the Sanctuarie of strength, and shall take away the dayly sacrifice, and they shall set vp the abominable desolation.
Daniel 11:32	And such as wickedly breake ye couenant, shall he cause to sinne by flatterie: but the people that do know their God, shall preuaile and prosper.
Daniel 11:33	And they that vnderstand among the people, shall instruct many: yet they shall fall by sword, and by flame, by captiuitie and by spoile many dayes.
Daniel 11:34	Nowe when they shall fall, they shall be holpen with a litle helpe: but many shall cleaue vnto them fainedly.
Daniel 11:35	And some of the of vnderstanding shall fall to trie them, and to purge, and to make them white, till the time be out: for there is a time appointed.
Daniel 11:36	And the King shall doe what him list: he shall exalt himselfe, and magnifie himselfe against all, that is God, and shall speake marueilous things against ye God of gods, and shall prosper, till ye wrath be accomplished: for ye determination is made.
Daniel 11:37	Neither shall he regard the God of his fathers, nor the desires of women, nor care for any God: for he shall magnifie himselfe aboue all.
Daniel 11:38	But in his place shall he honour the god Mauzzim, and the god whom his fathers knewe not, shall he honour with golde and with siluer, and with precious stones, and pleasant things.
Daniel 11:39	Thus shall he do in the holdes of Mauzzim with a strange god whom he shall acknowledge: he shall increase his glory, and shall cause them to rule ouer many and shall deuide ye land for gaine.
Daniel 11:40	And at ye end of time shall the King of the South push at him, and the king of the North shall come against him like a whirlewind with charets, and with horsemen, and with many ships, and he shall enter into ye countreis, and shall ouerflow and passe through.
Daniel 11:41	He shall enter also into the pleasant land, and many countreis shalbe ouerthrowen: but these shall escape out of his hand, euen Edom and Moab, and the chiefe of the children of Ammon.
Daniel 11:42	He shall stretch foorth his hands also vpon the countreis, and ye land of Egypt shall not escape.
Daniel 11:43	But he shall haue power ouer the treasures of golde and of siluer, and ouer all the precious things of Egypt, and of the Lybians, and of the blacke Mores where he shall passe.
Daniel 11:44	But the tidings out of the East and the North shall trouble him: therefore he shall goe foorth with great wrath to destroy and roote out many.
Daniel 11:45	And he shall plant the tabernacles of his palace betweene the seas in the glorious and holy mountaine, yet he shall come to his end, and none shall helpe him.
Daniel 12:1	And at that time shall Michael stand vp, ye great prince, which standeth for ye children of thy people, and there shall be a time of trouble, such as neuer was since there began to be a nation vnto that same time: and at that time thy people shall be deliuered, euery one that shall be foud written in ye boke.
Daniel 12:2	And many of them that sleepe in the dust of the earth, shall awake, some to euerlasting life, and some to shame and perpetuall contempt.
Daniel 12:3	And they that be wise, shall shine, as ye brightnes of the firmament: and they that turne many to righteousnes, shall shine as the starres, for euer and euer.
Daniel 12:4	But thou, O Daniel, shut vp the words, and seale the boke til the end of the time: many shall run to and from, and knowledge shall be increased.
Daniel 12:5	Then I Daniel looked, and behold, there stood other two, ye one on this side of ye brinke of ye riuer, and the other on that side of ye brinke of the riuer.
Daniel 12:6	And one saide vnto the man clothed in linen, which was vpon ye waters of the riuer, When shalbe the ende of these wonders?
Daniel 12:7	And I heard ye man clothed in line which was vpon the waters of the riuer, when he helde vp his right hand, and his left hand vnto heauen, and sware by him that liueth for euer, that it shall tarie for a time, two times and an halfe: and when he shall haue accomplished to scatter the power of the holy people, all these things shall be finished.
Daniel 12:8	The I heard it, but I vnderstood it not: the said I, O my Lord, what shalbe ye end of these things?
Daniel 12:9	And he said, Go thy way, Daniel: for ye words are closed vp, and sealed, till the ende of the time.
Daniel 12:10	Many shalbe purified, made white, and tried: but the wicked shall doe wickedly, and none of the wicked shall haue vnderstanding: but the wise shall vnderstand.
Daniel 12:11	And from the time that the daily sacrifice shalbe take away and the abominable desolatio set vp, there shalbe a thousand, two hundreth and ninetie daies.
Daniel 12:12	Blessed is he that waiteth and commeth to the thousand, three hundreth and fiue and thirtie daies.
Daniel 12:13	But go thou thy way til the end be: for thou shalt rest and stand vp in thy lot, at the end of ye daies.
