GENEVA 1599 PUBLIC DOMAIN CORPUS

===== BOOK: Numbers =====
Numbers 1:1	The Lord spake againe vnto Moses in the wildernesse of Sinai, in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, in the first day of the second moneth, in the second yere after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Numbers 1:2	Take ye the summe of all the Congregation of the children of Israel, after their families, and housholdes of their fathers with the nomber of their names: to wit, all the males, man by man:
Numbers 1:3	From twentie yere olde and aboue, all that go forth to the warre in Israel, thou and Aaron shall number them, throughout their armies.
Numbers 1:4	And with you shalbe men of euery tribe, such as are the heads of the house of their fathers.
Numbers 1:5	And these are the names of the men that shall stand with you, of the tribe of Reuben, Elizur, the sonne of Shedeur:
Numbers 1:6	Of Simeon, Shelumiel the sonne of Zurishaddai:
Numbers 1:7	Of Iudah, Nahshon the sonne of Amminadab:
Numbers 1:8	Of Issachar, Nethaneel, the sonne of Zuar:
Numbers 1:9	Of Zebulun, Eliab, the sonne of Helon:
Numbers 1:10	Of the children of Ioseph: of Ephraim, Elishama the sonne of Ammihud: of Manasseh, Gamliel, the sonne of Pedahzur:
Numbers 1:11	Of Beiamin, Abida the sonne of Gideoni:
Numbers 1:12	Of Dan, Ahiezer, the sonne of Ammishaddai:
Numbers 1:13	Of Asher, Pagiel, the sonne of Ocran:
Numbers 1:14	Of Gad, Eliasaph, the sonne of Deuel:
Numbers 1:15	Of Naphtali, Ahira the sonne of Enan.
Numbers 1:16	These were famous in the Congregation, princes of the tribes of their fathers, and heads ouer thousands in Israel.
Numbers 1:17	The Moses and Aaron tooke these men which are expressed by their names.
Numbers 1:18	And they called all the Congregation together, in the first day of the second moneth, who declared their kindreds by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yere olde and aboue, man by man.
Numbers 1:19	As the Lord had commanded Moses, so he nombred them in the wildernesse of Sinai.
Numbers 1:20	So were the sonnes of Reuben Israels eldest sonne by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, man by man euery male from twentie yere olde and aboue, as many as went forth to warre:
Numbers 1:21	The nomber of them, I say, of the tribe of Reuben, was sixe and fourtie thousande, and fiue hundreth.
Numbers 1:22	Of the sonnes of Simeon by their generatios, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, the summe therof by the nomber of their names, man by man, euery male from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went forth to warre:
Numbers 1:23	The summe of them, I say, of the tribe of Simeon was nine and fiftie thousande, and three hundreth.
Numbers 1:24	Of the sonnes of Gad by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yere olde and aboue, all that went forth to warre:
Numbers 1:25	The number of them, I say, of the tribe of Gad was fiue and fourtie thousand, and six hundreth and fiftie.
Numbers 1:26	Of the sonnes of Iudah by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yere olde and aboue, all that went forth to warre:
Numbers 1:27	The nomber of them, I say, of the tribe of Iudah was three score and fourteene thousande, and sixe hundreth.
Numbers 1:28	Of the sonnes of Issachar by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went forth to warre:
Numbers 1:29	The nomber of them also of the tribe of Issachar was foure and fiftie thousande and foure hundreth.
Numbers 1:30	Of the sonnes of Zebulun by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the number of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
Numbers 1:31	The nomber of them also of the tribe of Zebulun was seuen and fiftie thousand and foure hundreth.
Numbers 1:32	Of the sonnes of Ioseph, namely of the sonnes of Ephraim by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
Numbers 1:33	The nomber of them also of the tribe of Ephraim was fourtie thousande and fiue hundreth.
Numbers 1:34	Of the sonnes of Manasseh by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
Numbers 1:35	The nober of the also of ye tribe of Manasseh was two and thirtie thousand and two hundreth.
Numbers 1:36	Of the sonnes of Beniamin by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
Numbers 1:37	The nomber of them also of the tribe of Beniamin was fiue and thirtie thousande and foure hundreth.
Numbers 1:38	Of the sonnes of Dan by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
Numbers 1:39	The nomber of the also of ye tribe of Dan was three score and two thousand and seue hudreth.
Numbers 1:40	Of the sonnes of Asher by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the number of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went foorth to warre:
Numbers 1:41	The nomber of them also of ye tribe of Asher was one and fourtie thousand and fiue hudreth.
Numbers 1:42	Of the children of Naphtali, by their generations, by their families, and by the houses of their fathers, according to the nomber of their names, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, all that went to the warre:
Numbers 1:43	The nomber of them also of the tribe of Naphtali, was three and fiftie thousand, and foure hundreth.
Numbers 1:44	These are the summes which Moses, and Aaron nombred, and the Princes of Israel, the twelue men, which were euery one for the house of their fathers.
Numbers 1:45	So this was all the summe of the sonnes of Israel, by the houses of their fathers, from twenty yeere olde and aboue, all that went to the warre in Israel,
Numbers 1:46	And all they were in nomber sixe hudreth and three thousande, fiue hundreth and fiftie.
Numbers 1:47	But the Leuites, after the tribes of their fathers were not nombred among them.
Numbers 1:48	For the Lord had spoken vnto Moses, and said,
Numbers 1:49	Onely thou shalt not number the tribe of Leui, neither take the summe of them among the children of Israel:
Numbers 1:50	But thou shalt appoynt the Leuites ouer the Tabernacle of the Testimonie, and ouer all the instruments thereof, and ouer all things that belong to it: they shall beare the Tabernacle, and all the instruments thereof, and shall minister in it, and shall dwell round about the Tabernacle.
Numbers 1:51	And when the Tabernacle goeth forth, the Leuites shall take it downe: and when the Tabernacle is to be pitched, ye Leuites shall set it vp: for the stranger that commeth neere, shalbe slaine.
Numbers 1:52	Also the children of Israel shall pitch their tentes, euery man in his campe, and euery man vnder his standerd throughout their armies.
Numbers 1:53	But the Leuites shall pitch rounde about the Tabernacle of the Testimonie, least vengeance come vpon the Congregation of the children of Israel, and the Leuites shall take the charge of the Tabernacle of the Testimonie.
Numbers 1:54	So the children of Israel did according to all that ye Lord had comanded Moses: so did they.
Numbers 2:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, and to Aaron, saying,
Numbers 2:2	Euery man of the children of Israel shall campe by his standerd, and vnder the ensigne of their fathers house: farre off about the Tabernacle of the Congregation shall they pitch.
Numbers 2:3	On the East side towarde the rising of the sunne, shall they of the standerd of the hoste of Iudah pitch according to their armies: and Nahshon the sonne of Amminadab shalbe captaine of the sonnes of Iudah.
Numbers 2:4	And his hoste and the nomber of the were seuentie and foure thousande and sixe hundreth.
Numbers 2:5	Next vnto him shall they of the tribe of Issachar pitch, and Nethaneel the sonne of Zuar shalbe the captaine of the sonnes of Issachar:
Numbers 2:6	And his hoste, and the nomber thereof were foure and fiftie thousand, and foure hundreth.
Numbers 2:7	Then the tribe of Zebulun, and Eliab the sonne of Helon, captaine ouer the sonnes of Zebulun:
Numbers 2:8	And his hoste, and the nomber thereof seuen and fiftie thousand and foure hundreth:
Numbers 2:9	The whole nomber of the hoste of Iudah are an hundreth fourescore and sixe thousande, and foure hundreth according to their armies: they shall first set foorth.
Numbers 2:10	On the South side shalbe ye standerd of the host of Reuben according to their armies, and the captaine ouer the sonnes of Reuben shalbe Elizur the sonne of Shedeur.
Numbers 2:11	And his host, and the nomber thereof sixe and fourty thousand and fiue hundreth.
Numbers 2:12	And by him shall the tribe of Simeon pitch, and the captaiue ouer the sonnes of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the sonne of Zurishaddai:
Numbers 2:13	And his hoste, and the nomber of them, nine and fiftie thousand and three hundreth.
Numbers 2:14	And the tribe of Gad, and the captaine ouer the sonnes of Gad shall be Eliasaph the sonne of Deuel:
Numbers 2:15	And his host and the nomber of the were fiue and fourtye thousande, sixe hundreth and fiftie.
Numbers 2:16	All the nomber of the campe of Reuben were an hundreth and one and fiftie thousande, and foure hundreth and fiftie according to their armies, and they shall set foorth in the seconde place.
Numbers 2:17	Then the Tabernacle of the Congregation shall goe with the host of the Leuites, in the mids of the campe as they haue pitched, so shall they goe forwarde, euery man in his order according to their standerds.
Numbers 2:18	The standerd of the campe of Ephraim shalbe toward the west according to their armies: and ye captaine ouer the sonnes of Ephraim shall be Elishama the sonne of Ammihud:
Numbers 2:19	And his host and the nomber of the were fortie thousand and fiue hundreth.
Numbers 2:20	And by him shalbe the tribe of Manasseh, and the captaine ouer the sonnes of Manasseh shalbe Gamliel the sonne of Pedahzur:
Numbers 2:21	And his hoste and the nomber of them were two and thirtie thousand and two hundreth.
Numbers 2:22	And the tribe of Beniamin, and ye captaine ouer the sonnes of Beniamin shalbe Abidan the sonne of Gideoni:
Numbers 2:23	And his host, and the nomber of the were fiue and thirtie thousand and foure hundreth.
Numbers 2:24	All the nomber of the campe of Ephraim were an hundreth and eight thousande and one hundreth according to their armies, and they shall go in the third place.
Numbers 2:25	The standerd of the host of Dan shalbe toward the North according to their armies: and the captaine ouer the children of Dan shall be Ahiezer the sonne of Ammishaddai:
Numbers 2:26	And his host and the number of them were two and threescore thousand and seue hundreth.
Numbers 2:27	And by him shall the tribe of Asher pitch, and the captaine ouer the sonnes of Asher shalbe Pagiel the sonne of Ocran.
Numbers 2:28	And his host and the nomber of them were one and fourtie thousand and fiue hundreth.
Numbers 2:29	Then the tribe of Naphtali, and the captaine ouer the children of Naphtali shall be Ahira the sonne of Enan:
Numbers 2:30	And his host and the nomber of them were three and fiftie thousand and foure hundreth.
Numbers 2:31	All the nomber of the host of Dan was an hundreth and seuen and fiftie thousand and sixe hundreth: they shall goe hinmost with their standerdes.
Numbers 2:32	These are the summes of the childre of Israel by ye houses of their fathers, all the nomber of ye host, according to their armies, six hundreth and three thousand, fiue hundreth and fiftie.
Numbers 2:33	But the Leuites were not nombred among the children of Israel, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Numbers 2:34	And the children of Israel did according to all that the Lord had commanded Moses: so they pitched according to their standards, and so they iourneyed euery one with his families, according to the houses of their fathers.
Numbers 3:1	These also were the generations of Aaron and Moses, in the day that the Lord spake with Moses in mount Sinai.
Numbers 3:2	So these are the names of the sonnes of Aaron, Nadab the first borne, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Numbers 3:3	These are the names of the sonnes of Aaron the anoynted Priests, whom Moses did consecrate to minister in the Priests office.
Numbers 3:4	And Nadab and Abihu died before the Lord, when they offred strange fire before the Lord in the wildernesse of Sinai, and had no children: but Eleazar and Ithamar serued in ye Priestes office in the sight of Aaron their father.
Numbers 3:5	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 3:6	Bring the tribe of Leui, and set the before Aaron the Priest that they may serue him,
Numbers 3:7	And take the charge with him, euen the charge of the whole Congregation before the Tabernacle of the Congregation to doe the seruice of the Tabernacle.
Numbers 3:8	They shall also keepe all the instruments of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and haue the charge of the children of Israel to doe the seruice of the Tabernacle.
Numbers 3:9	And thou shalt giue the Leuites vnto Aaron and to his sonnes: for they are giuen him freely from among the children of Israel.
Numbers 3:10	And thou shalt appoint Aaron and his sonnes to execute their Priestes office: and the stranger that commeth neere, shalbe slayne.
Numbers 3:11	Also the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 3:12	Beholde, I haue euen taken the Leuites from among the childre of Israel: for al the first borne that openeth the matrice among the children of Israel, and the Leuites shalbe mine,
Numbers 3:13	Because all the first borne are mine: for the same day, that I smote all the first borne in the land of Egypt, I sanctified vnto me all the first borne in Israel, both man and beast: mine they shalbe: I am the Lord.
Numbers 3:14	Moreouer, the Lord spake vnto Moses in the wildernesse of Sinai, saying,
Numbers 3:15	Nomber the children of Leui after the houses of their fathers, in their families: euery male from a moneth olde and aboue shalt thou nomber.
Numbers 3:16	Then Moses nombred them according to the word of the Lord, as he was commanded.
Numbers 3:17	And these are the sonnes of Leui by their names, Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari.
Numbers 3:18	Also these are the names of the sonnes of Gershon by their families: Libni and Shimei.
Numbers 3:19	The sonnes also of Kohath by their families: Amram, and Izehar, Hebron, and Vzziel.
Numbers 3:20	And the sonnes of Merari by their families: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of Leui, according to the houses of their fathers.
Numbers 3:21	Of Gershon came the familie of the Libnites, and the familie of the Shimeites: these are the families of the Gershonites.
Numbers 3:22	The summe whereof (after the nomber of all the males from a moneth olde and aboue) was counted seuen thousand and fiue hundreth.
Numbers 3:23	The families of the Gershonites shall pitch behind the Tabernacle westward.
Numbers 3:24	The captaine and auncient of the house of the Gershonites shalbe Eliasaph the sonne of Lael.
Numbers 3:25	And the charge of the sonnes of Gershon in the Tabernacle of the Congregation shall be the Tabernacle, and the pauilion, the couering thereof, and the vaile of the dore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation,
Numbers 3:26	And the hanging of the court, and the vaile of the doore of the court, which is neere the Tabernacle, and neere ye Altar round about, and the cordes of it for all the seruice thereof.
Numbers 3:27	And of Kohath came the familie of the Amramites, and the familie of the Izeharites, and the familie of the Hebronites, and the familie of the Vzzielites: these are the families of the Kohathites.
Numbers 3:28	The nomber of all the males from a moneth olde and aboue was eight thousand and sixe hundreth, hauing the charge of the Sanctuarie.
Numbers 3:29	The families of the sonnes of Kohath shall pitch on the Southside of the Tabernacle.
Numbers 3:30	The captaine and auncient of the house, and families of the Kohathites shall be Elizaphan the sonne of Vzziel:
Numbers 3:31	And their charge shalbe the Arke, and the Table, and the Candlesticke, and the altars, and the instruments of the Sanctuarie that they minister with, and the vaile, and all that serueth thereto.
Numbers 3:32	And Eleazar the sonne of Aaron the Priest shalbe chiefe captaine of the Leuites, hauing the ouersight of them that haue the charge of the Sanctuarie.
Numbers 3:33	Of Merari came the familie of the Mahlites, and the familie of the Mushites: these are the families of Merari.
Numbers 3:34	And the summe of them, according to the nomber of all the males, from a moneth olde and aboue was sixe thousand and two hundreth.
Numbers 3:35	The captaine and the ancient of the house of the families of Merari shalbe Zuriel the sonne of Abihail: they shall pitche on the Northside of the Tabernacle.
Numbers 3:36	And in ye charge and custodie of the sonnes of Merari shall be the boardes of the Tabernacle, and the barres thereof, and his pillars, and his sockets, and al the instruments therof, and al that serueth thereto,
Numbers 3:37	With the pillars of the court round about, with their sockets, and their pins and their coardes.
Numbers 3:38	Also on the forefront of the Tabernacle toward the East, before the Tabernacle, I say, of the Congregation Eastwarde shall Moses and Aaron and his sonnes pitch, hauing the charge of the Sanctuarie, and the charge of the children of Israel: but the stranger that commeth neere, shall be slayne.
Numbers 3:39	The wholesumme of ye Leuites, which Moses and Aaron nombred at the commandement of the Lord throughout their families, euen al the males from a moneth olde and aboue, was two and twentie thousand.
Numbers 3:40	And the Lord said vnto Moses, Nomber all the first borne that are Males among the children of Israel, from a moneth old and aboue, and take the nomber of their names.
Numbers 3:41	And thou shalt take ye Leuites to me for all the first borne of the children of Israel (I am the Lord) and the cattell of the Leuites for all the first borne of the cattell of the children of Israel.
Numbers 3:42	And Moses nombred, as the Lord commanded him, all the first borne of the children of Israel.
Numbers 3:43	And all the first borne males rehearsed by name (from a moneth olde and aboue) according to their nomber were two and twentie thousand, two hundreth seuentie and three.
Numbers 3:44	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 3:45	Take the Leuites for all the first borne of the children of Israel, and the cattell of the Leuites for their cattel, and the Leuites shalbe mine, (I am the Lord)
Numbers 3:46	And for the redeeming of the two hundreth seuentie and three, (which are moe then the Leuites) of the first borne of the children of of Israel,
Numbers 3:47	Thou shalt also take fiue shekels for euery person: after the weight of the Sanctuarie shalt thou take it: ye shekel conteineth twenty gerahs.
Numbers 3:48	And thou shalt giue the money, wherwith the odde nomber of them is redeemed, vnto Aaron and to his sonnes.
Numbers 3:49	Thus Moses tooke the redemption of the that were redeemed, being more then the Leuites:
Numbers 3:50	Of the first borne of the children of Israel tooke he the mony: eue a thousand three hundreth three score and fiue shekels after the shekel of the Sanctuarie.
Numbers 3:51	And Moses gaue the money of them that were redeemed, vnto Aaron and to his sonnes according to the word of the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Numbers 4:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, and to Aaron, saying,
Numbers 4:2	Take the summe of the sonnes of Kohath from among the sonnes of Leui, after their families, and houses of their fathers,
Numbers 4:3	From thirtie yeere olde and aboue, euen vntill fiftie yeere olde, all that enter into the assemblie to do the worke in the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 4:4	This shall be the office of the sonnes of Kohath in the Tabernacle of the Congregation about the Holiest of all.
Numbers 4:5	When the hoste remoueth, then Aaron and his sonnes shall come and take downe the couering vaile, and shall couer the Arke of the Testimonie therewith.
Numbers 4:6	And they shall put thereon a couering of badgers skinnes, and shall spread vpon it a cloth altogether of blewe silke, and put to the barres thereof:
Numbers 4:7	And vpon ye table of shew bread they shall spread a cloth of blewe silke, and put thereon the dishes, and the incense cups, and goblets, and couerings to couer it with, and the bread shall be thereon continually:
Numbers 4:8	And they shall spread vpon them a couering of skarlet, and couer the same with a couering of badgers skinnes, and put to the barres thereof.
Numbers 4:9	Then they shall take a cloth of blewe silke, and couer the candlesticke of light with his lampes and his snuffers, and his snuffedishes, and al the oyle vessels thereof, which they occupie about it.
Numbers 4:10	So they shall put it, and all the instruments thereof in a couering of badgers skinnes, and put it vpon the barres.
Numbers 4:11	Also vpon the golden altar they shall spread a cloth of blewe silke, and couer it with a couering of badgers skinnes, and put to the barres thereof.
Numbers 4:12	And they shall take all the instruments of the ministerie wherewith they minister in the Sanctuarie, and put them in a cloth of blew silke, and couer the with a couering of badgers skinnes, and put them on the barres.
Numbers 4:13	Also they shall take away the ashes from the altar, and spread a purple cloth vpon it,
Numbers 4:14	And shall put vpon it all the instruments thereof, which they occupie about it: the censers, the fleshhookes and the besomes, and the basens, euen al the instruments of the altar and they shall spread vpon it a couering of badgers skinnes, and put to the barres of it.
Numbers 4:15	And when Aaron and his sonnes haue made an ende of couering the Sanctuarie, and al the instruments of the Sanctuarie, at the remouing of the host, afterward the sonnes of Kohath shall come to beare it, but they shall not touch any holy thing, lest they dye. This is the charge of the sonnes of Kohath in the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 4:16	And to the office of Eleazar the sonne of Aaron the Priest pertaineth the oyle for the light, and the sweete incense and the dayly meat offring, and the anointing oyle, with the ouersight of all the Tabernacle, and of all that therein is, both in the Sanctuarie and in all the instruments thereof.
Numbers 4:17	And the Lord spake vnto Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Numbers 4:18	Ye shall not cut off the tribe of the families of the Kohathites from among the Leuites:
Numbers 4:19	But thus do vnto them, that they may liue and not die, when they come neere to the most holy things: let Aaron and his sonnes come and appoynt them, euery one to his office, and to his charge.
Numbers 4:20	But let them not goe in, to see when the Sanctuarie is folden vp, lest they die.
Numbers 4:21	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 4:22	Take also ye summe of the sonnes of Gershon, euery one by the houses of their fathers throughout their families:
Numbers 4:23	From thirtie yere old and aboue, vntil fiftie yere old shalt thou nomber them, al that enter into the assemblie for to do seruice in the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 4:24	This shall be the seruice of the families of the Gershonites, to serue and to beare.
Numbers 4:25	They shall beare the curtaines of the Tabernacle, and the Tabernacle of the Congregation, his couering, and the couering of badgers skinnes, that is on hie vpon it, and the vayle of the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation:
Numbers 4:26	The curtaines also of the court, and the vaile of the entring in of the gate of the court, which is neere the Tabernacle and neere the altar round about, with their cordes, and all the instruments for their seruice, and all that is made for them: so shall they serue.
Numbers 4:27	At the commandement of Aaron and his sonnes shall all the seruice of the sonnes of ye Gershonites bee done, in all their charges and in all their seruice, and ye shall appoynt them to keepe all their charges.
Numbers 4:28	This is the seruice of the families of the sonnes of the Gershonites in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and their watch shall be vnder the hande of Ithamar the sonne of Aaron the Priest.
Numbers 4:29	Thou shalt nomber the sonnes of Merari by their families, and by the houses of their fathers:
Numbers 4:30	From thirty yere olde and aboue, euen vnto fiftie yere olde shalt thou nomber the, all that enter into the assemblie, to doe the seruice of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 4:31	And this is their office and charge according to all their seruice in the Tabernacle of the Congregation: the boardes of the Tabernacle with the barres thereof, and his pillars, and his sockets,
Numbers 4:32	And the pillars rounde about the court, with their sockets and their pinnes, and their cords, with all their instruments, euen for all their seruice: and by name ye shall recken the instruments of their office and charge.
Numbers 4:33	This is the seruice of the families of the sonnes of Merari, according to all their seruice in the Tabernacle of the Congregation vnder the hand of Ithamar the sonne of Aaron the Priest.
Numbers 4:34	Then Moses and Aaron and the princes of the Congregation nombred the sonnes of the Kohathites, by their families and by the houses of their fathers,
Numbers 4:35	From thirtie yeere olde and aboue, euen vnto fiftie yere olde, all that enter into the assemblie for the seruice of the Tabernacle of ye Congregation.
Numbers 4:36	So the nombers of the throughout their families were two thousande, seuen hundreth and fiftie.
Numbers 4:37	These are the nombers of the families of the Kohathites, al that serue in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, which Moses and Aaron did nomber according to the commandement of the Lord by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 4:38	Also the nombers of the sonnes of Gershon throughout their families and houses of their fathers,
Numbers 4:39	From thirtie yere olde and vpwarde, euen vnto fiftie yere olde: all that enter into the assemblie for the seruice of the Tabernacle of the Cogregation.
Numbers 4:40	So the nombers of them by their families, and by the houses of their fathers were two thousand sixe hundreth and thirtie.
Numbers 4:41	These are the nombers of the families of the sonnes of Gershon: of all that did seruice in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, whom Moses and Aaron did nomber according to the commandement of the Lord.
Numbers 4:42	The nombers also of the families of the sonnes of Merari by their families, and by the houses of their fathers,
Numbers 4:43	From thirtie yeere olde and vpwarde, euen vnto fiftie yeere olde: all that enter into the assemblie for the seruice of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 4:44	So the nombers of them by their families were three thousand, and two hundreth.
Numbers 4:45	These are the summes of ye families of the sonnes of Merari, whom Moses and Aaron nombred according to the commandement of the Lord, by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 4:46	So all the nombers of the Leuites, which Moses, and Aaron, and the princes of Israel nombred by their families and by the houses of their fathers,
Numbers 4:47	From thirtie yere olde and vpward, euen to fiftie yeere olde, euery one that came to doe his duetie, office, seruice and charge in the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 4:48	So the nombers of them were eight thousand, fiue hundreth and foure score.
Numbers 4:49	According to the commandement of the Lord by the hand of Moses did Aaron nomber them, euery one according to his seruice, and according to his charge. Thus were they of that tribe nombred, as the Lord commanded Moses.
Numbers 5:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 5:2	Commaund the children of Israel that they put out of the hoste euery leper, and euery one that hath an issue, and whosoeuer is defiled by the dead.
Numbers 5:3	Both male and female shall ye put out: out of the hoste shall yee put them, that they defile not their tentes among whome I dwell.
Numbers 5:4	And the children of Israel did so, and put them out of the host, euen as the Lord had commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel.
Numbers 5:5	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 5:6	Speake vnto the children of Israel, When a man or woman shall commit any sinne that men commit, and transgresse against the Lord, when that person shall trespasse,
Numbers 5:7	Then they shall confesse their sinne which they haue done, and shall restore the domage thereof with his principall, and put the fift part of it more thereto, and shall giue it vnto him, against whom he hath trespassed.
Numbers 5:8	But if the man haue no kinseman, to whom he shoulde restore the domage, the domage shall be restored to the Lord for the Priests vse besides the ramme of the atonement, whereby hee shall make atonement for him.
Numbers 5:9	And euery offring of all the holy thinges of the children of Israel, which they bring vnto the Priest, shalbe his.
Numbers 5:10	And euery mans halowed things shall bee his: that is, whatsoeuer any man giueth the Priest, it shalbe his.
Numbers 5:11	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 5:12	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, If any mans wife turne to euill, and commit a trespasse against him,
Numbers 5:13	So that an other man lie with her fleshly, and it bee hid from the eyes of her husband, and kept close, and yet she be defiled, and there be no witnesse against her, neither she taken with the maner,
Numbers 5:14	If he be moued with a ielous minde, so that he is ielous ouer his wife, which is defiled, or if he haue a ielous minde, so that he is ielous ouer his wife, which is not defiled,
Numbers 5:15	Then shall the man bring his wife to the Priest, and bring her offering with her, the tenth part of an Ephah of barly meale, but he shall not powre oyle vpon it, nor put incense thereon: for it is an offring of ielousie, an offring for a remembrance, calling the sinne to minde:
Numbers 5:16	And the Priest shall bring her, and set her before the Lord.
Numbers 5:17	Then the Priest shall take the holy water in an earthen vessel, and of the dust that is in the floore of the Tabernacle, euen the Priest shall take it and put it into the water.
Numbers 5:18	After, the Priest shall set the woman before the Lord, and vncouer the womans head, and put the offring of the memorial in her hands: it is the ielousie offering, and the Priest shall haue bitter and cursed water in his hand,
Numbers 5:19	And the Priest shall charge her by an othe, and say vnto the woman, If no man haue lien with thee, neither thou hast turned to vncleannesse from thine husband, be free from this bitter and cursed water.
Numbers 5:20	But if thou hast turned from thine husband, and so art defiled, and some man hath lyen with thee beside thine husband,
Numbers 5:21	(Then the Priest shall charge the woman with an othe of cursing, and the Priest shall say vnto the woman) The Lord make thee to be accursed, and detestable for the othe among thy people, and the Lord cause thy thigh to rot, and thy belly to swell:
Numbers 5:22	And that this cursed water may goe into thy bowels, to cause thy belly to swell, and thy thigh to rot. Then the woman shall answere, Amen, Amen.
Numbers 5:23	After, the Priest shall write these curses in a booke, and shall blot them out with the bitter water,
Numbers 5:24	And shall cause the woman to drinke ye bitter and cursed water, and the cursed water, turned into bitternesse, shall enter into her.
Numbers 5:25	Then the Priest shall take the ielousie offring out of the womans hand, and shall shake the offring before the Lord, and offer it vpon ye altar.
Numbers 5:26	And the Priest shall take an handfull of the offring for a memorial thereof, and burne it vpon the altar, and afterwarde make the woman drinke the water.
Numbers 5:27	When yee haue made her drinke the water, (if she bee defiled and haue trespassed against her husband) then shall the cursed water, turned into bitternesse, enter into her, and her belly shall swell, and her thigh shall rot, and the woman shall be accursed among her people.
Numbers 5:28	But if the woman bee not defiled, but bee cleane, she shalbe free and shall conceiue and beare.
Numbers 5:29	This is the law of ielousie, when a wife turneth from her husband and is defiled,
Numbers 5:30	Or when a man is moued with a ielous minde being ielous ouer his wife then shall he bring the woman before the Lord, and the Priest shall do to her according to al this lawe,
Numbers 5:31	And the man shalbe free from sinne, but this woman shall beare her iniquitie.
Numbers 6:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 6:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, When a man or a woman doeth separate themselues to vowe a vowe of a Nazarite to separate himselfe vnto the Lord,
Numbers 6:3	He shall abstaine from wine and strong drinke, and shall drinke no sowre wine nor sowre drinke, nor shall drinke any licour of grapes, neither shall eate fresh grapes nor dryed.
Numbers 6:4	As long as his abstinence endureth, shall hee eat nothing that is made of the wine of the vine, neither the kernels, nor the huske.
Numbers 6:5	While hee is separate by his vowe, the rasor shall not come vpon his head, vntill the dayes be out, in the which he separateth him selfe vnto the Lord, he shalbe holy, and shall let the lockes of the heare of his head growe.
Numbers 6:6	During the time that he separateth himselfe vnto the Lord, he shall come at no dead body:
Numbers 6:7	Hee shall not make himselfe vncleane at the death of his father, or mother, brother, or sister: for the consecration of his God is vpon his head.
Numbers 6:8	All the dayes of his separation he shalbe holy to the Lord.
Numbers 6:9	And if any dye suddenly by him, or hee beware, then the head of his consecration shall be defiled, and he shall shaue his head in the day of his clensing: in the seuenth day he shall shaue it.
Numbers 6:10	And in the eight day hee shall bring two turtles, or two yong pigeons to the Priest, at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 6:11	Then the Priest shall prepare the one for a sinne offering, and the other for a burnt offering, and shall make an atonement for him, because he sinned by the dead: so shall he halowe his head the same day,
Numbers 6:12	And he shall consecrate vnto the Lord the dayes of his separation, and shall bring a lambe of a yeere olde for a trespasse offering, and the first dayes shalbe voide: for his consecration was defiled.
Numbers 6:13	This then is the lawe of the Nazarite: When the time of his consecration is out, he shall come to the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation,
Numbers 6:14	And hee shall bring his offering vnto the Lord, an hee lambe of a yeere olde without blemish for a burnt offering, and a shee lambe of a yere olde without blemish for a sinne offring, and a ramme without blemish for peace offrings,
Numbers 6:15	And a basket of vnleauened bread, of cakes of fine floure, mingled with oyle, and wafers of vnleauened bread anointed with oile, with their meate offring, and their drinke offrings:
Numbers 6:16	The which the Priest shall bring before the Lord, and make his sinne offering and his burnt offering.
Numbers 6:17	He shall prepare also the ram for a peace offring vnto the Lord, with the basket of vnleauened bread, and the Priest shall make his meate offring, and his drinke offring.
Numbers 6:18	And the Nazarite shall shaue the head of his consecration at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and shall take the heare of the head of his consecration, and put it in the fire, which is vnder the peace offring.
Numbers 6:19	Then the Priest shall take ye sodden shoulder of the ramme, and an vnleauened cake out of the basket, and a wafer vnleauened, and put them vpon the hands of the Nazarite, after he hath shauen his consecration.
Numbers 6:20	And the Priest shall shake them to and from before the Lord: this is an holy thing for the Priest besides the shaken breast, and besides the heaue shoulder: so afterwarde the Nazarite may drinke wine.
Numbers 6:21	This is the Lawe of the Nazarite, which he hath vowed, and of his offering vnto the Lord for his consecration, besides that that hee is able to bring: according to the vowe which he vowed, so shall he do after the lawe of his consecration.
Numbers 6:22	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 6:23	Speake vnto Aaron and to his sonnes, saying, Thus shall ye blesse the childre of Israel, and say vnto them,
Numbers 6:24	The Lord blesse thee, and keepe thee,
Numbers 6:25	The Lord make his face shine vpon thee, and be merciful vnto thee,
Numbers 6:26	The Lord lift vp his coutenance vpon thee, and giue thee peace.
Numbers 6:27	So they shall put my Name vpon the children of Israel, and I wil blesse them.
Numbers 7:1	Nowe when Moses had finished the setting vp of the Tabernacle, and anointed it and sanctified it, and all the instruments thereof, and the altar with al the instruments thereof, and had anoynted them and sanctified them,
Numbers 7:2	Then the princes of Israel, heads ouer the houses of their fathers (they were the princes of the tribes, who were ouer them that were nombred) offred,
Numbers 7:3	And brought their offring before the Lord, sixe couered charets, and twelue oxen: one charet for two princes, and for euery one an oxe, and they offred them before the Tabernacle.
Numbers 7:4	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 7:5	Take these of them, that they may be to doe the seruice of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and thou shalt giue them vnto the Leuites, to euery man according vnto his office.
Numbers 7:6	So Moses tooke the charets and the oxen, and gaue them vnto the Leuites:
Numbers 7:7	Two charets and foure oxen hee gaue to the sonnes of Gershon, according vnto their office.
Numbers 7:8	And foure charets and eight oxen hee gaue to the sonnes of Merari according vnto their office, vnder the hand of Ithamar the sonne of Aaron the Priest.
Numbers 7:9	But to the sonnes of Kohath he gaue none, because the charge of the Sanctuarie belonged to them, which they did beare vpon their shoulders.
Numbers 7:10	The princes also offered in the dedication for the altar in the day that it was anoynted: then the princes offered their offering before the altar.
Numbers 7:11	And the Lord sayd vnto Moses, One prince one day, and an other prince an other day shall offer their offring, for the dedication of the altar.
Numbers 7:12	So then on the first day did Nahshon the sonne of Amminadab of ye tribe of Iudah offer his offring.
Numbers 7:13	And his offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuenty shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
Numbers 7:14	An incense cup of gold of tenne shekels, ful of incense,
Numbers 7:15	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:16	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:17	And for peace offrings, two bullockes, fiue rams, fiue hee goates, and fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Nahshon the sonne of Amminadab.
Numbers 7:18	The second day Nethaneel, the sonne of Zuar, prince of the tribe of Issachar did offer:
Numbers 7:19	Who offred for his offring a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meat offring,
Numbers 7:20	An incense cup of gold of ten shekels, ful of incense,
Numbers 7:21	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:22	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:23	And for peace offrings, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Nethaneel the sonne of Zuar.
Numbers 7:24	The third day Eliab the sonne of Helon prince of the children of Zebulun offred.
Numbers 7:25	His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirty shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
Numbers 7:26	A golden incense cup of ten shekels, ful of incense,
Numbers 7:27	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:28	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:29	And for peace offrings, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offering of Eliab the sonne of Helon.
Numbers 7:30	The fourth day Elizur ye sonne of Shedeur prince of the children of Reuben offred.
Numbers 7:31	His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuary, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
Numbers 7:32	A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
Numbers 7:33	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yere olde for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:34	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:35	And for a peace offring, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, and fiue lambes of a yere olde: this was the offering of Elizur the sonne of Shedeur.
Numbers 7:36	The fifth day Shelumiel the sonne of Zurishaddai, prince of the children of Simeon offered.
Numbers 7:37	His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuary, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
Numbers 7:38	A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
Numbers 7:39	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:40	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:41	And for a peace offring, two bullocks, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yere old: this was the offering of Shelumiel the sonne of Zurishaddai.
Numbers 7:42	The sixt day Eliasaph the sonne of Deuel prince of the children of Gad offred.
Numbers 7:43	His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both ful of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
Numbers 7:44	A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
Numbers 7:45	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yere olde, for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:46	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:47	And for a peace offering, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yere olde: this was the offring of Eliasaph the sonne of Deuel.
Numbers 7:48	The seuenth day Elishama the sonne of Ammiud prince of the children of Ephraim offered.
Numbers 7:49	His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuary, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offering,
Numbers 7:50	A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
Numbers 7:51	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:52	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:53	And for a peace offring, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Elishama the sonne of Ammiud.
Numbers 7:54	The eight day offred Gamliel the sonne of Pedazur, prince of the children of Manasseh.
Numbers 7:55	His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
Numbers 7:56	A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
Numbers 7:57	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:58	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:59	And for a peace offring, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Gamliel the sonne of Pedazur.
Numbers 7:60	The ninth day Abidan the sonne of Gideoni prince of the children of Beniamin offered.
Numbers 7:61	His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
Numbers 7:62	A golden incense cup of ten shekels, full of incense,
Numbers 7:63	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:64	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:65	And for a peace offring, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Abidan the sonne of Gideoni.
Numbers 7:66	The tenth day Ahiezer the sonne of Ammishaddai, prince of the children of Dan offred.
Numbers 7:67	His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
Numbers 7:68	A golden incense cup of ten shekels full of incense,
Numbers 7:69	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yeere olde for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:70	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:71	And for a peace offring, two bullocks, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Ahiezer the sonne of Ammishaddai.
Numbers 7:72	The eleuenth day Pagiel the sonne of Ocran, prince of the children of Asher offred.
Numbers 7:73	His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
Numbers 7:74	A golden incense cup of ten shekels, ful of incense,
Numbers 7:75	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yere olde for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:76	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:77	And for a peace offring, two bullockes, fiue rams, fiue he goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offring of Pagiel the sonne of Ocran.
Numbers 7:78	The twelfth day Ahira the sonne of Enan, prince of the children of Naphtali offred,
Numbers 7:79	His offring was a siluer charger of an hundreth and thirtie shekels weight, a siluer boule of seuentie shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, both full of fine floure, mingled with oyle, for a meate offring,
Numbers 7:80	A golden incense cup of ten shekels, ful of incense,
Numbers 7:81	A yong bullocke, a ram, a lambe of a yere olde for a burnt offring,
Numbers 7:82	An hee goate for a sinne offring,
Numbers 7:83	And for peace offerings, two bullockes, fiue rammes, fiue hee goates, fiue lambes of a yeere olde: this was the offering of Ahira the sonne of Enan.
Numbers 7:84	This was the dedication of the Altar by the princes of Israel, whe it was anointed: twelue chargers of siluer, twelue siluer boules, twelue incense cuppes of golde,
Numbers 7:85	Euery charger, conteining an hundreth and thirtie shekels of siluer, and euery boule seuentie: all the siluer vessell conteined two thousande and foure hundreth shekels, after the shekell of the Sanctuarie.
Numbers 7:86	Twelue incense cups of gold ful of incense, conteining ten shekels euery cup, after the shekell of the Sanctuarie: all the gold of the incense cups was an hundreth and twentie shekels.
Numbers 7:87	All the bullockes for the burnt offering were twelue bullocks, the rams twelue, the lambs of a yeere olde twelue, with their meate offrings, and twelue hee goates for a sinne offring.
Numbers 7:88	And all the bullocks for the peace offrings were foure and twentie bullockes, the rammes sixtie, the hee goates sixtie, the lambes of a yeere olde sixtie: this was the dedication of the Altar, after that it was anointed.
Numbers 7:89	And when Moses went into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, to speake with God, he heard the voyce of one speaking vnto him from the Merciseat, that was vpon the Arke of the Testimonie betweene the two Cherubims, and he spake to him.
Numbers 8:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 8:2	Speake vnto Aaron, and say vnto him, When thou lightest the lampes, the seuen lampes shall giue light towarde the forefront of the Candlesticke.
Numbers 8:3	And Aaron did so, lighting the lampes thereof towarde ye forefront of the Candlesticke, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Numbers 8:4	And this was the worke of the Candlesticke, euen of golde beaten out with the hammer, both the shafte, and the flowres thereof was beaten out with the hammer: according to the paterne, which the Lord had shewed Moses, so made he the Candlesticke.
Numbers 8:5	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 8:6	Take the Leuites from among the children of Israel, and purifie them.
Numbers 8:7	And thus shalt thou doe vnto them, when thou purifiest them, Sprinckle water of purification vpon them, and let them shaue all their flesh, and wash their clothes: so they shalbe cleane.
Numbers 8:8	Then they shall take a yong bullocke with his meate offring of fine floure, mingled with oyle, and another yong bullocke shalt thou take for a sinne offring.
Numbers 8:9	Then thou shalt bring the Leuites before the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and asseble all the Congregation of the children of Israel.
Numbers 8:10	Thou shalt bring the Leuites also before the Lord, and the children of Israel shall put their handes vpon the Leuites.
Numbers 8:11	And Aaron shall offer the Leuites before the Lord, as a shake offring of ye childre of Israel, that they may execute the seruice of the Lord.
Numbers 8:12	And the Leuites shall put their handes vpon the heades of the bullockes, and make thou the one a sinne offring, and the other a burnt offring vnto the Lord, that thou mayest make an atonement for the Leuites.
Numbers 8:13	And thou shalt set the Leuites before Aaron and before his sonnes, and offer the as a shake offring to the Lord.
Numbers 8:14	Thus thou shalt separate the Leuites from among the children of Israel, and the Leuites shall be mine.
Numbers 8:15	And afterwarde shall the Leuites goe in, to serue in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and thou shalt purifie them and offer them, as a shake offering.
Numbers 8:16	For they are freely giuen vnto me from among the children of Israel, for such as open any wombe: for all the first borne of the children of Israel haue I taken them vnto me.
Numbers 8:17	For all the first borne of the children of Israel are mine, both of man and of beast: since the day that I smote euery first borne in the land of Egypt, I sanctified them for my selfe.
Numbers 8:18	And I haue taken the Leuites for all the first borne of the children of Israel,
Numbers 8:19	And haue giuen the Leuites as a gift vnto Aaron, and to his sonnes from among the children of Israel, to do the seruice of the children of Israel in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and to make an atonement for the children of Israel, that there be no plague among the children of Israel, when the children of Israel come neere vnto the Sanctuarie.
Numbers 8:20	Then Moses and Aaron and all the Cogregation of the children of Israel did with the Leuites, according vnto all that the Lord had commanded Moses concerning the Leuites: so did the children of Israel vnto them.
Numbers 8:21	So the Leuites were purified, and washed their clothes, and Aaron offred them as a shake offring before the Lord, and Aaron made an atonement for them, to purifie them.
Numbers 8:22	And after that, went the Leuites in to doe their seruice in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, before Aaron and before his sonnes: as the Lord had commanded Moses concerning the Leuites, so they did vnto them.
Numbers 8:23	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 8:24	This also belongeth to the Leuites: from fiue and twentie yeere olde and vpwarde, they shall goe in, to execute their office in the seruice of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 8:25	And after the age of fiftie yeere, they shall cease from executing the office, and shall serue no more:
Numbers 8:26	But they shall minister with their brethre in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, to keepe things committed to their charge, but they shall doe no seruice: thus shalt thou doe vnto the Leuites touching their charges.
Numbers 9:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses in the wildernes of Sinai, in the first moneth of the second yeere, after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Numbers 9:2	The children of Israel shall also celebrate the Passeouer at ye time appointed thereunto.
Numbers 9:3	In the fourtenth day of this moneth at euen, ye shall keepe it in his due season: according to all the ordinances of it, and according to all the ceremonies thereof shall ye keepe it.
Numbers 9:4	Then Moses spake vnto the children of Israel, to celebrate the Passeouer.
Numbers 9:5	And they kept the Passeouer in the fouretenth day of the first moneth at euen in the wildernesse of Sinai: according to all that the Lord had comanded Moses, so did ye children of Israel.
Numbers 9:6	And certaine men were defiled by a dead man, that they might not keepe the Passeouer the same day: and they came before Moses and before Aaron the same day.
Numbers 9:7	And those men said vnto him, We are defiled by a dead man: wherefore are wee kept backe that we may not offer an offering vnto the Lord in the time thereunto appointed among the children of Israel?
Numbers 9:8	Then Moses saide vnto them, Stande still, and I will heare what the Lord will commande concerning you.
Numbers 9:9	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 9:10	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say, If any amog you, or of your posteritie shalbe vncleane by ye reason of a corps, or be in a log iourney, he shall keepe the Passeouer vnto ye Lord.
Numbers 9:11	In the fourtenth day of the second moneth at euen they shall keepe it: with vnleauened bread and sowre herbes shall they eate it.
Numbers 9:12	They shall leaue none of it vnto the morning, nor breake any bone of it: according to all the ordinance of the Passeouer shall they keepe it.
Numbers 9:13	But the man that is cleane and is not in a iourney, and is negligent to keepe the Passeouer, the same person shalbe cut off from his people: because he brought not the offring of the Lord in his due season, that man shall beare his sinne.
Numbers 9:14	And if a stranger dwell among you, and wil keepe the Passeouer vnto the Lord, as the ordinance of the Passeouer, and as the maner thereof is, so shall he do: ye shall haue one lawe both for the stranger, and for him that was borne in the same lande.
Numbers 9:15	And when the Tabernacle was reared vp, a cloude couered the Tabernacle, namely the Tabernacle of the Testimonie: and at euen there was vpon the Tabernacle, as the appearance of fire vntill the morning.
Numbers 9:16	So it was alway: the cloude couered it by day, and the appearance of fire by night.
Numbers 9:17	And when the cloude was taken vp from the Tabernacle, then afterwarde the children of Israel iourneyed: and in the place where the cloude abode, there the children of Israel pitched their tents.
Numbers 9:18	At the commandement of the Lord the children of Israel iourneyed, and at the comandement of the Lord they pitched: as long as the cloude abode vpon the Tabernacle, they lay still.
Numbers 9:19	And when the cloude taryed stil vpon the Tabernacle a long time, the childre of Israel kept the watch of the Lord, and iourneyed not.
Numbers 9:20	So when the cloud abode a few dayes vpon the Tabernacle, they abode in their tents according to the comandement of ye Lord: for they iourneyed at the commandement of the Lord.
Numbers 9:21	And though the cloud abode vpon the Tabernacle from euen vnto the morning, yet if the cloude was taken vp in the morning, then they iourneyed: whether by daye or by night the cloude was taken vp, then they iourneyed.
Numbers 9:22	Or if the cloude taryed two dayes or a moneth, or a yeere vpon the Tabernacle, abiding thereon, the children of Israel abode still, and iourneyed not: but when it was taken vp, they iourneyed.
Numbers 9:23	At the commandement of the Lord they pitched, and at the commandement of the Lord they iourneyed, keeping the watch of the Lord at the commandement of the Lord by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 10:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 10:2	Make thee two trumpets of siluer: of an whole piece shalt thou make the, that thou mayest vse them for the assembling of the Congregation, and for the departure of the campe.
Numbers 10:3	And when they shall blowe with them, all the Congregation shall assemble to thee before the doore of the Tabernacle of the Cogregation.
Numbers 10:4	But if they blowe with one, then the princes, or heades ouer the thousandes of Israel shall come vnto thee.
Numbers 10:5	But if ye blow an alarme, then the campe of the that pitch on the East part, shall go forward.
Numbers 10:6	If ye blowe an alarme the second time, then the hoste of them that lie on the Southside shall march: for they shall blowe an alarme when they remoue.
Numbers 10:7	But in assembling the Congregation, ye shall blowe without an alarme.
Numbers 10:8	And the sonnes of Aaron the Priest shall blowe the trumpets, and ye shall haue them as a lawe for euer in your generations.
Numbers 10:9	And when ye goe to warre in your lande against the enemie that vexeth you, ye shall blowe an alarme with the trumpets, and ye shall bee remembred before the Lord your God, and shalbe saued from your enemies.
Numbers 10:10	Also in the day of your gladnesse, and in your feast dayes, and in the beginning of your moneths, ye shall also blow the trumpets ouer your burnt sacrifices, and ouer your peace offrings, that they may be a remembrance for you before your God: I am the Lord your God.
Numbers 10:11	And in the seconde yeere, in the seconde moneth, and in the twentieth day of the moneth the cloude was taken vp from the Tabernacle of the Testimonie.
Numbers 10:12	And ye children of Israel departed on their iourneys out of the desart of Sinai, and the cloud rested in the wildernesse of Paran.
Numbers 10:13	So they first tooke their iourney at the comandement of the Lord, by ye hand of Moses.
Numbers 10:14	In the first place went the standerd of the hoste of the children of Iudah, according to their armies: and Nahshon the sonne of Amminabad was ouer his band.
Numbers 10:15	And ouer the band of the tribe of the children of Issachar was Nethaneel ye sonne of Zuar.
Numbers 10:16	And ouer the band of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the sonne of Helon.
Numbers 10:17	When the Tabernacle was taken downe, then the sonnes of Gershon, and the sonnes of Merari went forward bearing the Tabernacle.
Numbers 10:18	After, departed the standerd of the hoste of Reuben, according to their armies, and ouer his band was Elizur the sonne of Shedeur.
Numbers 10:19	And ouer the band of the tribe of ye children of Simeon was Shelumiel the sonne of Shurishaddai.
Numbers 10:20	And ouer the bande of the tribe of ye children of Gad was Eliasaph the sonne of Deuel.
Numbers 10:21	The Kohathites also went forward and bare the Sanctuarie, and the former did set vp the Tabernacle against they came.
Numbers 10:22	Then the standerd of the hoste of the children of Ephraim went forward according to their armies, and ouer his bande was Elishama the sonne of Ammiud.
Numbers 10:23	And ouer the band of the tribe of ye sonnes of Manasseh was Gamliel the sonne of Pedazur.
Numbers 10:24	And ouer the band of ye tribe of the sonnes of Beniamin was Abidan the sonne of Gideoni.
Numbers 10:25	Last, the standerd of the hoste of the children of Dan marched, gathering all ye hostes according to their armies: and ouer his bande was Ahiezer the sonne of Ammishaddai.
Numbers 10:26	And ouer the bande of the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the sonne of Ocran.
Numbers 10:27	And ouer the bande of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Ahira ye sonne of Enan.
Numbers 10:28	These were the remouings of the children of Israel according to their armies, whe they marched.
Numbers 10:29	After, Moses said vnto Hobab ye sonne of Reuel the Midianite, ye father in law of Moses, We go into the place, of which ye Lord said, I will giue it you: Come thou with vs, and we wil doe thee good: for ye Lord hath promised good vnto Israel.
Numbers 10:30	And he answered him, I will not goe: but I will depart to mine owne countrey, and to my kindred.
Numbers 10:31	Then he sayd, I pray thee, leaue vs not: for thou knowest our camping places in the wildernesse: therefore thou mayest be our guide.
Numbers 10:32	And if thou go with vs, what goodnes the Lord shall shew vnto vs, the same will we shewe vnto thee.
Numbers 10:33	So they departed from the mount of the Lord, three dayes iourney: and the Arke of the couenant of the Lord went before them in the three dayes iourney, to searche out a resting place for them.
Numbers 10:34	And the cloude of the Lord was vpon the by day, when they went out of the campe.
Numbers 10:35	And when the Arke went forwarde, Moses saide, Rise vp, Lord, and let thine enemies bee scattered, and let them that hate thee, flee before thee.
Numbers 10:36	And when it rested, hee sayde, Returne, O Lord, to the many thousands of Israel.
Numbers 11:1	When the people became murmurers, it displeased the Lord: and the Lord heard it, therefore his wrath was kindled, and the fire of the Lord burnt among them, and consumed the vtmost parte of the hoste.
Numbers 11:2	Then the people cryed vnto Moses: and when Moses praied vnto the Lord, the fire was quenched.
Numbers 11:3	And he called the name of that place Taberah, because the fire of the Lord burnt among them.
Numbers 11:4	And a nomber of people that was amog them, fell a lusting, and turned away, and the children of Israel also wept, and saide, Who shall giue vs flesh to eate?
Numbers 11:5	We remember the fish which we did eat in Egypt for nought, the cucumbers, and the pepons, and the leekes, and the onions, and the garleke.
Numbers 11:6	But now our soule is dryed away, we can see nothing but this Man.
Numbers 11:7	(The Man also was as coriander seede, and his colour like the colour of bdelium.
Numbers 11:8	The people went about and gathered it, and ground it in milles, or beat it in morters, and baked it in a cauldron, and made cakes of it, and the taste of it was like vnto the taste of fresh oyle.
Numbers 11:9	And when the dewe fell downe vpon the hoste in the night, the Man fell with it)
Numbers 11:10	Then Moses heard the people weepe throughout their families, euery man in the doore of his tent, and the wrath of the Lord was grieuously kindled: also Moses was grieued.
Numbers 11:11	And Moses saide vnto the Lord, Wherefore hast thou vexed thy seruant? and why haue I not found fauour in thy sight, seeing thou hast put the charge of al this people vpon mee?
Numbers 11:12	Haue I conceiued al this people? or haue I begotte them, that thou shouldest say vnto me, Cary them in thy bosome (as a nurse beareth the sucking childe) vnto the lande, for the which thou swarest vnto their fathers?
Numbers 11:13	Where should I haue flesh to giue vnto al this people? for they weepe vnto me, saying, Giue vs flesh that we may eate.
Numbers 11:14	I am not able to beare al this people alone, for it is too heauie for me.
Numbers 11:15	Therefore if thou deale thus with mee, I pray thee, if I haue founde fauour in thy sight, kill me, that I behold not my miserie.
Numbers 11:16	Then the Lord said vnto Moses, Gather vnto me seuetie men of ye Elders of Israel, whome thou knowest, that they are the Elders of the people, and gouernonrs ouer them, and bring them vnto the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and let them stand there with thee,
Numbers 11:17	And I will come downe, and talke with thee there, and take of the Spirite, which is vpon thee, and put vpon them, and they shall beare the burthen of the people with thee: so thou shalt not beare it alone.
Numbers 11:18	Furthermore thou shalt saye vnto the people, Bee sanctified against to morowe, and yee shall eate flesh: for you haue wept in the eares of the Lord, saying, Who shall giue vs flesh to eate? for we were better in Egypt: therefore the Lord will giue you flesh, and ye shall eate.
Numbers 11:19	Ye shall not eat one day nor two daies, nor fiue daies, neither ten daies, nor twentie dayes,
Numbers 11:20	But a whole moneth, vntill it come out at your nostrels, and bee lothesome vnto you, because ye haue contemned the Lord, which is among you, and haue wept before him, saying, Why came we hither out of Egypt?
Numbers 11:21	And Moses saide, Six hundreth thousande footemen are there of the people, among whom I am: and thou saiest, I will giue them flesh, that they may eate a moneth long.
Numbers 11:22	Shall the sheepe and the beeues be slaine for them, to finde them? either shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them to suffice them?
Numbers 11:23	And the Lord saide vnto Moses, Is the Lordes hand shortened? thou shalt see now whether my word shall come to passe vnto thee, or no.
Numbers 11:24	So Moses went out, and told the people the wordes of the Lord, and gathered seuentie men of the Elders of the people, and set them round about the Tabernacle.
Numbers 11:25	Then the Lord came downe in a cloude, and spake vnto him, and tooke of the Spirit that was vpon him, and put it vpon the seuentie Ancient men: and when the Spirit rested vpon them, then they prophecied, and did not cease.
Numbers 11:26	But there remained two of the men in the hoste: the name of the one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad, and the Spirit rested vpon them, (for they were of them that were written, and went not out vnto the Tabernacle) and they prophecied in the hoste.
Numbers 11:27	Then there ranne a yong man, and tolde Moses, and saide, Eldad and Medad doe prophesie in the hoste.
Numbers 11:28	And Ioshua the sonne of Nun the seruant of Moses one of his yong men answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them.
Numbers 11:29	But Moses saide vnto him, Enuiest thou for my sake? yea, would God that all the Lordes people were Prophets, and that the Lord woulde put his Spirit vpon them.
Numbers 11:30	And Moses returned into the hoste, he and the Elders of Israel.
Numbers 11:31	Then there went foorth a winde from the Lord, and brought quailes from the Sea, and let them fall vpon the campe, a dayes iourney on this side, and a dayes iourney on the other side, round about the hoste, and they were about two cubites aboue the earth.
Numbers 11:32	Then the people arose, al that day, and all the night, and all the next day, and gathered the quailes: he that gathered the least, gathered ten Homers full, and they spred them abroade for their vse round about the hoste.
Numbers 11:33	While the flesh was yet betweene their teeth, before it was chewed, euen the wrath of the Lord was kindled against the people, and the Lord smote the people with an exceeding great plague.
Numbers 11:34	So the name of the place was called, Kibroth-hattaauah: for there they buried the people that fell a lusting.
Numbers 11:35	From Kibroth-hattaauah ye people tooke their iourney to Hazeroth, and abode at Hazeroth.
Numbers 12:1	Afterward Miriam and Aaron spake against Moses, because of the woman of Ethiopia whome hee had maried (for hee had married a woman of Ethiopia)
Numbers 12:2	And they saide, What? hath the Lord spoken but onely by Moses? hath he not spoken also by vs? and the Lord heard this.
Numbers 12:3	(But Moses was a verie meeke man, aboue all the men that were vpon the earth)
Numbers 12:4	And by and by the Lord sayd vnto Moses, and vnto Aaron, and vnto Miriam, come out yee three vnto the Tabernacle of the Congregation: and they three came forth.
Numbers 12:5	Then the Lord came downe in the pillar of the cloude, and stoode in the doore of the Tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam, and they both came forth.
Numbers 12:6	And hee saide, Heare nowe my wordes, If there be a Prophet of the Lord among you, I will be knowen to him by a vision, and will speake vnto him by dreame.
Numbers 12:7	My seruant Moses is not so, who is faithfull in all mine house.
Numbers 12:8	Vnto him will I speake mouth to mouth, and by vision, and not in darke wordes, but hee shall see the similitude of the Lord. Wherefore then were ye not afraid to speake against my seruant, euen against Moses?
Numbers 12:9	Thus the Lord was very angrie with them, and departed.
Numbers 12:10	Also the cloude departed from the Tabernacle: and beholde, Miriam was leprous like snowe: and Aaron looked vpon Miriam, and beholde, she was leprous.
Numbers 12:11	Then Aaron saide vnto Moses, Alas, my Lord, I beseech thee, lay not the sinne vpon vs, which we haue foolishly committed and wherein we haue sinned.
Numbers 12:12	Let her not, I pray thee, be as one dead, of whome the flesh is halfe consumed, when he commeth out of his mothers wombe.
Numbers 12:13	Then Moses cryed vnto the Lord, saying, O God, I beseech thee, heale her nowe.
Numbers 12:14	And the Lord said vnto Moses, If her father had spit in her face, shoulde she not haue bene ashamed seuen dayes? let her be shut out of the hoste seuen dayes, and after she shall bee receiued.
Numbers 12:15	So Miriam was shut out of the hoste seuen dayes, and the people remooued not, till Miriam was brought in againe.
Numbers 13:1	Then afterwarde the people remooued from Hazeroth, and pitched in the wildernesse of Paran.
Numbers 13:2	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 13:3	Sende thou men out to search the lande of Canaan which I giue vnto the children of Israel: of euery tribe of their fathers shall ye sende a man, such as are all rulers among them.
Numbers 13:4	Then Moses sent them out of the wildernesse of Paran at the commandement of the Lord: all those men were heades of the children of Israel.
Numbers 13:5	Also their names are these: of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the sonne of Zaccur:
Numbers 13:6	Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the sonne of Hori:
Numbers 13:7	Of the tribe of Iudah, Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh:
Numbers 13:8	Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the sonne of Ioseph:
Numbers 13:9	Of the tribe of Ephraim, Oshea the sone of Nun:
Numbers 13:10	Of the tribe of Beniamin, Palti the sonne of Raphu:
Numbers 13:11	Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the sone of Sodi:
Numbers 13:12	Of the tribe of Ioseph, to wit, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the sonne of Susi:
Numbers 13:13	Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the sonne of Gemalli:
Numbers 13:14	Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the sonne of Michael:
Numbers 13:15	Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the sonne of Vophsi:
Numbers 13:16	Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the sonne of Machi.
Numbers 13:17	These are the names of the men, which Moses sent to spie out the lande: and Moses called ye name of Oshea the sonne of Nun, Iehoshua.
Numbers 13:18	So Moses sent them to spie out the lande of Canaan, and said vnto them, Go vp this way toward the South, and go vp into the moutaines,
Numbers 13:19	And consider the land what it is, and the people that dwel therein, whether they be strong or weake, either fewe or many,
Numbers 13:20	Also what the lande is that they dwell in, whether it be good or bad: and what cities they be, that they dwell in, whether they dwell in tents, or in walled townes:
Numbers 13:21	And what the land is: whether it be fat or leane, whether there be trees therein, or not. And be of good courage, and bring of the fruite of the lande (for then was the time of the first ripe grapes)
Numbers 13:22	So they went vp, and searched out the lande, from the wildernesse of Zin vnto Rehob, to go to Hamath,
Numbers 13:23	And they ascended toward the South, and came vnto Hebron, where were Ahiman, Sheshai and Talmai, the sonnes of Anak. And Hebron was built seuen yeere before Zoan in Egypt.
Numbers 13:24	Then they came to the riuer of Eshcol, and cut downe thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bare it vpon a barre betweene two, and brought of the pomegranates and of the figges.
Numbers 13:25	That place was called the riuer Eshcol, because of the cluster of grapes, which the children of Israel cut downe thence.
Numbers 13:26	Then after fourtie dayes, they turned againe from searching of the land.
Numbers 13:27	And they went and came to Moses and to Aaron and vnto al the Congregation of the children of Israel, in the wildernesse of Paran, to Kadesh, and brought to the, and to all the Congregation tydings, and shewed them the fruite of the lande.
Numbers 13:28	And they tolde him, and saide, We came vnto the land whither thou hast sent vs, and surely it floweth with milke and honie: and here is of the fruite of it.
Numbers 13:29	Neuerthelesse the people be strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled and exceeding great: and moreouer, we sawe the sonnes of Anak there.
Numbers 13:30	The Amalekites dwell in the South countrey, and the Hittites, and the Iebusites, and the Amorites dwell in the mountaines, and the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and by the coast of Iorden.
Numbers 13:31	Then Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and saide, Let vs go vp at once, and possesse it: for vndoubtedly we shall ouercome it.
Numbers 13:32	But the men, that went vp with him, saide, we be not able to goe vp against the people: for they are stronger then we.
Numbers 13:33	So they brought vp an euill report of the land which they had searched for the children of Israel, saying, The lande which we haue gone through to search it out, is a land that eateth vp the inhabitants thereof: for all the people that we sawe in it, are men of great stature.
Numbers 13:34	For there we sawe gyants, the sonnes of Anak, which come of the gyants, so that we seemed in our sight like grashoppers: and so wee were in their sight.
Numbers 14:1	Then all ye Congregation lifted vp their voice, and cryed: and the people wept that night,
Numbers 14:2	And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron: and the whole assemblie said vnto them, Would God we had died in the land of Egypt, or in this wildernesse: would God we were dead.
Numbers 14:3	Wherefore nowe hath the Lord brought vs into this lande to fall vpon the sworde? our wiues, and our children shall be a pray: were it not better for vs to returne into Egypt?
Numbers 14:4	And they said one to another, Let vs make a Captaine and returne into Egypt.
Numbers 14:5	Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assemblie of the Congregation of the children of Israel.
Numbers 14:6	And Ioshua the sonne of Nun, and Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh two of them that searched the lande, rent their clothes,
Numbers 14:7	And spake vnto all the assemblie of the childre of Israel, saying, The land which we walked through to search it, is a very good lande.
Numbers 14:8	If the Lord loue vs, he will bring vs into this land, and giue it vs, which is a land that floweth with milke and honie.
Numbers 14:9	But rebell not ye against the Lord, neither feare ye the people of the land: for they are but bread for vs: their shielde is departed from the, and the Lord is with vs, feare them not.
Numbers 14:10	And all the multitude saide, Stone them with stones: but the glory of the Lord appeared in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, before all the children of Israel.
Numbers 14:11	And the Lord said vnto Moses, How long will this people prouoke me, and howe long will it be, yer they beleeue me, for al the signes which I haue shewed among them?
Numbers 14:12	I will smite them with the pestilence and destroy them, and will make thee a greater nation and mightier then they.
Numbers 14:13	But Moses saide vnto the Lord, When the Egyptians shall heare it, (for thou broughtest this people by thy power from among them)
Numbers 14:14	Then they shall say to the inhabitants of this land, (for they haue heard that thou, Lord, art among this people, and that thou, Lord, art seene face to face, and that thy cloude standeth ouer them, and that thou goest before them by day time in a pillar of a cloude, and in a pillar of fire by night)
Numbers 14:15	That thou wilt kill this people as one man: so the heathen which haue heard the fame of thee, shall thus say,
Numbers 14:16	Because the Lord was not able to bring this people into the lande, which he sware vnto them, therefore hath he slaine them in the wildernesse.
Numbers 14:17	And now, I beseech thee, let the power of my Lord be great, according as thou hast spoken, saying,
Numbers 14:18	The Lord is slowe to anger, and of great mercie, and forgiuing iniquitie, and sinne, but not making the wicked innocent, and visiting the wickednes of the fathers vpon the children, in the thirde and fourth generation:
Numbers 14:19	Be mercifull, I beseech thee, vnto the iniquitie of this people, according to thy great mercie, and as thou hast forgiuen this people from Egypt, euen vntill nowe.
Numbers 14:20	And the Lord said, I haue forgiuen it, according to thy request.
Numbers 14:21	Notwithstanding, as I liue, all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord.
Numbers 14:22	For all those men which haue seene my glory, and my miracles which I did in Egypt, and in the wildernes, and haue tempted me this ten times, and haue not obeyed my voyce,
Numbers 14:23	Certainely they shall not see the lande, whereof I sware vnto their fathers: neither shall any that prouoke me, see it.
Numbers 14:24	But my seruant Caleb, because he had another spirite, and hath followed me stil, euen him will I bring into the lande, whither he went, and his seede shall inherite it.
Numbers 14:25	Nowe the Amalekites and the Canaanites remaine in the valley: wherefore turne backe to morowe, and get you into the wildernesse, by the way of the red Sea.
Numbers 14:26	After, the Lord spake vnto Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Numbers 14:27	How long shall I suffer this wicked multitude to murmure against me? I haue heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmure against me.
Numbers 14:28	Tell them, As I liue (saith the Lord) I wil surely do vnto you, euen as ye haue spoken in mine eares.
Numbers 14:29	Your carkeises shall fall in this wildernes, and all you that were counted through all your nombers, from twentie yeere olde and aboue, which haue murmured against me,
Numbers 14:30	Ye shall not doubtles come into the land, for the which I lifted vp mine hande, to make you dwell therein, saue Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh, and Ioshua the sonne of Nun.
Numbers 14:31	But your children, (which ye said shoulde be a pray) them will I bring in, and they shall knowe the lande which ye haue refused:
Numbers 14:32	But euen your carkeises shall fall in this wildernes,
Numbers 14:33	And your children shall wander in the wildernesse, fourtie yeeres, and shall beare your whoredomes, vntill your carkeises be wasted in the wildernesse.
Numbers 14:34	After the number of the dayes, in the which ye searched out the lande, euen fourtie dayes, euery day for a yeere, shall ye beare your iniquity, for fourtie yeeres, and ye shall feele my breach of promise.
Numbers 14:35	I the Lord haue said, Certainely I will doe so to all this wicked company, that are gathered together against me: for in this wildernesse they shall be consumed, and there they shall die.
Numbers 14:36	And the men which Moses had sent to search the land (which, when they came againe, made all the people to murmure against him, and brought vp a slander vpon the lande)
Numbers 14:37	Euen those men that did bring vp that vile slander vpon the land, shall die by a plague before the Lord.
Numbers 14:38	But Ioshua the sonne of Nun, and Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh, of those men that went to search the land, shall liue.
Numbers 14:39	Then Moses tolde these sayings vnto all the children of Israel, and the people sorowed greatly.
Numbers 14:40	And they rose vp earely in the morning, and gate them vp into the toppe of the mountaine, saying, Loe, we be readie, to goe vp to the place which the Lord hath promised: for wee haue sinned.
Numbers 14:41	But Moses said, Wherefore transgresse yee thus the commandement of the Lord? it will not so come well to passe.
Numbers 14:42	Goe not vp (for the Lord is not among you) lest ye be ouerthrowe before your enemies.
Numbers 14:43	For the Amalekites and the Canaanites are there before you, and ye shall fall by the sworde: for in as much as ye are turned away from the Lord, the Lord also will not be with you.
Numbers 14:44	Yet they presumed obstinately to goe vp to the top of the mountaine: but the Arke of the couenant of the Lord, and Moses departed not out of the campe.
Numbers 14:45	Then the Amalekites and the Canaanites, which dwelt in that mountaine, came downe and smote them, and consumed them vnto Hormah.
Numbers 15:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 15:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, Whe ye be come into the land of your habitations, which I giue vnto you,
Numbers 15:3	And will make an offring by fire vnto the Lord, a burnt offring or a sacrifice to fulfil a vowe, or a free offring, or in your feastes, to make a sweete sauour vnto the Lord of the hearde, or of the flocke.
Numbers 15:4	Then let him that offreth his offring vnto the Lord, bring a meate offring of a tenth deale of fine flowre, mingled with the fourth part of an Hin of oyle.
Numbers 15:5	Also thou shalt prepare ye fourth part of an Hin of wine to be powred on a lambe, appointed for the burnt offring or any offring.
Numbers 15:6	And for a ram, thou shalt for a meat offring, prepare two tenth deales of fine floure, mingled with the third part of an Hin of oyle.
Numbers 15:7	And for a drinke-offering, thou shalt offer the third part of an Hin of wine, for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Numbers 15:8	And when thou preparest a bullocke for a burnt offring, or for a sacrifice to fulfill a vowe or a peace offring to the Lord,
Numbers 15:9	Then let him offer with ye bullocke a meate offring of three tenth deales of fine floure, mingled with halfe an Hin of oyle.
Numbers 15:10	And thou shalt bring for a drinke offring halfe an Hin of wine, for an offring made by fire of a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Numbers 15:11	Thus shall it be done for a bullocke, or for a ram, or for a lambe, or for a kid.
Numbers 15:12	According to the nomber that yee prepare to offer, so shall yee doe to euery one according to their nomber.
Numbers 15:13	All that are borne of the countrey, shall do these things thus, to offer an offring made by fire of sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Numbers 15:14	And if a stranger soiourne with you, or whosoeuer bee among you in your generations, and will make an offring by fire of a sweete sauour vnto the Lord, as ye do, so hee shall doe.
Numbers 15:15	One ordinance shalbe both for you of the Congregation, and also for the stranger that dwelleth with you, euen an ordinance for euer in your generations: as you are, so shall the stranger bee before the Lord.
Numbers 15:16	One Lawe and one maner shall serue both for you and for the stranger that soiourneth with you.
Numbers 15:17	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 15:18	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, When ye be come into the lande, to the which I bring you,
Numbers 15:19	And when ye shall eate of the bread of the land, ye shall offer an heaue offring vnto ye Lord.
Numbers 15:20	Ye shall offer vp a cake of the first of your dowe for an heaue offring: as the heaue offring of the barne, so ye shall lift it vp.
Numbers 15:21	Of the first of your dowe ye shall giue vnto the Lord an heaue offring in your generations.
Numbers 15:22	And if ye haue erred, and not obserued all these commandements, which the Lord hath spoken vnto Moses,
Numbers 15:23	Euen all that the Lord hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the first day that the Lord commanded Moses, and hence forward among your generations:
Numbers 15:24	And if so be that ought be committed ignorantly of the Congregation, then all ye Congregatio shall giue a bullocke for a burnt offring, for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord, with the meat offring and drinke offring thereto, according to the maner, and an hee goate for a sinne offring.
Numbers 15:25	And the Priest shall make an atonement for al the Congregation of the children of Israel, and it shalbe forgiuen them: for it is ignorance: and they shall bring their offring for an offring made by fire vnto the Lord, and their sinne offering before the Lord for their ignorance.
Numbers 15:26	Then it shalbe forgiuen all the Congregation of the children of Israel, and the stranger that dwelleth among them: for all the people were in ignorance.
Numbers 15:27	But if any one person sinne through ignorance, then he shall bring a shee goate of a yeere olde for a sinne offring.
Numbers 15:28	And the Priest shall make an atonement for the ignorant person, when hee sinneth by ignorance before the Lord, to make reconciliation for him: and it shalbe forgiuen him.
Numbers 15:29	He that is borne among the children of Israel, and the stranger that dwelleth among them, shall haue both one lawe, who so doth sinne by ignorance.
Numbers 15:30	But the person that doeth ought presumptuously, whether he be borne in the land, or a stranger, the same blasphemeth the Lord: therefore that person shalbe cut off from among his people,
Numbers 15:31	Because he hath despised the worde of the Lord, and hath broken his commandement: that person shalbe vtterly cut off: his iniquitie shalbe vpon him.
Numbers 15:32	And while the children of Israel were in the wildernesse, they found a man that gathered stickes vpon the Sabbath day.
Numbers 15:33	And they that found him gathering sticks, brought him vnto Moses and to Aaron, and vnto all the Congregation,
Numbers 15:34	And they put him warde: for it was not declared what should be done vnto him.
Numbers 15:35	Then the Lord said vnto Moses, This man shall dye the death: and let al the multitude stone him with stones without the hoste.
Numbers 15:36	And all the Congregation brought him without the hoste, and stoned him with stones, and he died, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Numbers 15:37	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 15:38	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and bid them that they make them fringes vpon the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and put vpon the fringes of the borders a ryband of blewe silke.
Numbers 15:39	And ye shall haue the fringes, that when ye looke vpon them, ye may remember all the commandemets of the Lord, and do them: and that ye seeke not after your own heart, nor after your owne eyes, after the which ye go a whoring;
Numbers 15:40	That yee may remember and doe all my commandements, and bee holy vnto your God.
Numbers 15:41	I am the Lord your God, which brought you out of the lande of Egypt, to bee your God: I am the Lord your God.
Numbers 16:1	Nowe Korah the sonne of Izhar, the sonne of Kohath, the sonne of Leui went apart with Dathan, and Abiram the sonnes of Eliab, and On the sonne of Peleth, the sonnes of Reuben:
Numbers 16:2	And they rose vp against Moses, with certaine of the children of Israel, two hundreth and fiftie captaines of the assemblie, famous in the Congregation, and men of renoume,
Numbers 16:3	Who gathered themselues together against Moses, and against Aaron, and sayde vnto them, Ye take too much vpon you, seeing all the Congregation is holie, euery one of them, and the Lord is among them: wherfore then lift ye your selues aboue the Congregation of the Lord?
Numbers 16:4	But when Moses heard it, hee fell vpon his face,
Numbers 16:5	And spake to Korah and vnto all his companie, saying, To morow the Lord will shew who is his, and who is holy, and who ought to approche neere vnto him: and whom he hath chosen, hee will cause to come neere to him.
Numbers 16:6	This doe therefore, Take you censers, both Korah, and all his companie,
Numbers 16:7	And put fire therein, and put incense in the before the Lord to morowe: and the man whome the Lord doeth chuse, the same shalbe holie: ye take too much vpon you, ye sonnes of Leui.
Numbers 16:8	Againe Moses saide vnto Korah, Heare, I pray you, ye sonnes of Leui.
Numbers 16:9	Seemeth it a small thing vnto you that the God of Israel hath separated you from the multitude of Israel, to take you neere to himselfe, to doe the seruice of the Tabernacle of the Lord, and to stand before the Congregation and to minister vnto them?
Numbers 16:10	He hath also taken thee to him, and all thy brethren the sonnes of Leui with thee, and seeke ye the office of the Priest also?
Numbers 16:11	For which cause, thou, and all thy companie are gathered together against the Lord: and what is Aaron, that ye murmure against him?
Numbers 16:12	And Moses sent to call Dathan, and Abiram the sonnes of Eliab: who answered, We will not come vp.
Numbers 16:13	Is it a small thing that thou hast brought vs out of a lande that floweth with milke and honie, to kill vs in the wildernesse, except thou make thy selfe lord and ruler ouer vs also?
Numbers 16:14	Also thou hast not brought vs vnto a land that floweth with milke and honie, neither giuen vs inheritance of fieldes and vineyardes: wilt thou put out the eyes of these men? we will not come vp.
Numbers 16:15	Then Moses waxed verie angry, and saide vnto the Lord, Looke not vnto their offring: I haue not taken so much as an asse from them, neither haue I hurt any of them.
Numbers 16:16	And Moses said vnto Korah, Bee thou and al thy companie before the Lord: both thou, they, and Aaron to morowe:
Numbers 16:17	And take euery man his censor, and put incense in them, and bring ye euery man his censor before the Lord, two hundreth and fiftie censors: thou also and Aaron, euery one his censor.
Numbers 16:18	So they tooke euery man his censor, and put fire in them, and laide incense thereon, and stoode in the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation with Moses and Aaron.
Numbers 16:19	And Korah gathered all the multitude against them vnto the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation: then the glorie of the Lord appeared vnto all the Congregation.
Numbers 16:20	And the Lord spake vnto Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Numbers 16:21	Separate your selues from among this Cogregation, that I may consume them at once.
Numbers 16:22	And they fell vpon their faces and saide, O God the God of the spirits, of all fleshe, hath not one man onely sinned, and wilt thou bee wroth with all the Congregation?
Numbers 16:23	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 16:24	Speake vnto the Congregation and say, Get you away from about the Tabernacle of Korah, Dathan and Abiram.
Numbers 16:25	Then Moses rose vp, and went vnto Dathan and Abiram, and the Elders of Israel followed him.
Numbers 16:26	And he spake vnto the Congregation, saying, Depart, I pray you, from the tentes of these wicked men, and touche nothing of theirs, lest ye perish in all their sinnes.
Numbers 16:27	So they gate them away from the Tabernacle of Korah, Dathan and Abiram on euerie side: and Dathan, and Abiram came out and stood in the doore of their tentes with their wiues, and their sonnes, and their little children.
Numbers 16:28	And Moses saide, Hereby yee shall knowe that the Lord hath sent me to do all these works: for I haue not done them of mine owne minde.
Numbers 16:29	If these men die the common death of all men, or if they be visited after the visitation of all men, the Lord hath not sent me.
Numbers 16:30	But if the Lord make a newe thing, and the earth open her mouth, and swallowe them vp with all that they haue, and they goe downe quicke into ye pit, then ye shall vnderstand that these men haue prouoked the Lord.
Numbers 16:31	And assoone as he had made an ende of speaking all these wordes, euen the ground claue asunder that was vnder them,
Numbers 16:32	And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them vp, with their families, and all the men that were with Korah, and all their goods.
Numbers 16:33	So they and all that they had, went down aliue into the pit, and the earth couered them: so they perished from among the Congregation.
Numbers 16:34	And all Israel that were about them, fled at the crie of them: for they said, Let vs flee, least the earth swalow vs vp.
Numbers 16:35	But there came out a fire from the Lord, and consumed the two hundreth and fiftie men that offred the incense.
Numbers 16:36	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 16:37	Speake vnto Eleazar, the sonne of Aaron the Priest, that he take vp the censers out of the burning, and scatter the fire beyond the altar: for they are halowed,
Numbers 16:38	The censers, I say, of these sinners, that destroyed themselues: and let them make of them broade plates for a couering of the Altar: for they offered them before the Lord, therefore they shalbe holy, and they shall be a signe vnto the children of Israel.
Numbers 16:39	Then Eleazar the Priest tooke the brasen censers, which they, that were burnt, had offred, and made broade plates of them for a couering of the Altar.
Numbers 16:40	It is a remembrance vnto the children of Israel, that no stranger which is not of the seede of Aaron, come neere to offer incense before the Lord, that he be not like Korah and his company, as the Lord said to him by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 16:41	But on the morowe all the multitude of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, Ye haue killed the people of the Lord.
Numbers 16:42	And when the Congregation was gathered against Moses and against Aaron, then they turned their faces toward the Tabernacle of the Congregation: and beholde, the cloude couered it, and the glory of the Lord appeared.
Numbers 16:43	Then Moses and Aaron were come before the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 16:44	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 16:45	Get you vp from among this Congregation: for I wil consume them quickly: then they fell vpon their faces.
Numbers 16:46	And Moses said vnto Aaron, Take the censer and put fire therein of the Altar, and put therein incense, and goe quickly vnto the Congregation, and make an atonement for them: for there is wrath gone out from the Lord: the plague is begunne.
Numbers 16:47	Then Aaron tooke as Moses commanded him, and ranne into the middes of the Congregation, and beholde, the plague was begun among the people, and hee put in incense, and made an atonement for the people.
Numbers 16:48	And when hee stoode betweene the dead, and them that were aliue, the plague was stayed.
Numbers 16:49	So they died of this plague fourtene thousande and seuen hundreth, beside them that dyed in the conspiracie of Korah.
Numbers 16:50	And Aaron went againe vnto Moses before the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and the plague was stayed.
Numbers 17:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 17:2	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and take of euery one of them a rod, after the house of their fathers, of all their princes according to the familie of their fathers, euen twelue rods: and thou shalt write euery mans name vpon his rod.
Numbers 17:3	And write Aarons name vpon the rod of Leui: for euery rodde shalbe for the head of the house of their fathers.
Numbers 17:4	And thou shalt put them in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, before the Arke of the Testimonie, where I wil declare my selfe to you.
Numbers 17:5	And the mans rod, whome I chuse, shall blossome: and I will make cease from mee the grudgings of the children of Israel, which grudge against you.
Numbers 17:6	Then Moses spake vnto the children of Israel, and al their princes gaue him a rod, one rod for euery Prince, according to the houses of their fathers, euen twelue rods, and the rod of Aaron was among their roddes.
Numbers 17:7	And Moses layde the rods before the Lord in the Tabernacle of the Testimonie.
Numbers 17:8	And when Moses on the morow went into the Tabernacle of the Testimonie, beholde, the rod of Aaron for the house of Leui was budded, and brought forth buddes, and brought forth blossoms, and bare ripe almondes.
Numbers 17:9	Then Moses brought out all the rods from before the Lord vnto all the children of Israel: and they looked vpon them, and tooke euery man his rodde.
Numbers 17:10	After, the Lord said vnto Moses, Bring Aarons rod againe before the Testimonie to bee kept for a token to the rebellious children, and thou shalt cause their murmurings to cease from me, that they dye not.
Numbers 17:11	So Moses did as the Lord had commanded him: so did he.
Numbers 17:12	And the children of Israel spake vnto Moses, saying, Behold, we are dead, we perish, we are all lost:
Numbers 17:13	Whosoeuer commeth neere, or approcheth to the Tabernacle of the Lord, shall dye: shall we be consumed and dye?
Numbers 18:1	And the Lord sayd vnto Aaron, Thou, and thy sonnes and thy fathers house with thee, shall beare the iniquitie of the Sanctuarie: both thou and thy sonnes with thee shall beare the iniquitie of your Priestes office.
Numbers 18:2	And bring also with thee thy brethren of the tribe of Leui of ye familie of thy father, which shalbe ioyned with thee, and minister vnto thee: but thou, and thy sonnes with thee shall minister before the Tabernacle of the Testimonie:
Numbers 18:3	And they shall keepe thy charge, euen the charge of all the Tabernacle: but they shall not come neere the instruments of the Sanctuary, nor to the altar, lest they die, both they and you:
Numbers 18:4	And they shalbe ioyned with thee, and keepe the charge of the Tabernacle of the Congregation for all the seruice of the Tabernacle: and no stranger shall come neere vnto you:
Numbers 18:5	Therefore shall ye keepe the charge of the Sanctuarie, and the charge of the altar: so there shall fall no more wrath vpon the children of Israel.
Numbers 18:6	For lo, I haue taken your brethren the Leuites from among the children of Israel, which as a gift of yours, are giuen vnto the Lord, to do the seruice of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 18:7	But thou, and thy sonnes with thee shall keepe your Priestes office for all things of the altar, and within the vaile: therefore shall ye serue: for I haue made your Priestes office an office of seruice: therefore the stranger that cometh neere, shalbe slayne.
Numbers 18:8	Againe the Lord spake vnto Aaron, Behold, I haue giuen thee the keeping of mine offrings, of all the hallowed things of the children of Israel: vnto thee I haue giuen them for the anoyntings sake, and to thy sonnes, for a perpetuall ordinance.
Numbers 18:9	This shalbe thine of the most holy things, reserued from the fire: all their offering of all their meate offring, and of all their sinne offring, and of all their trespasse offring, which they bring vnto me, that shalbe most holy vnto thee, and to thy sonnes.
Numbers 18:10	In the most holy place shalt thou eate it: euery male shall eate of it: it is holy vnto thee.
Numbers 18:11	This also shalbe thine: the heaue offering of their gift, with all the shake offerings of the children of Israel: I haue giuen them vnto thee and to thy sonnes and to thy daughters with thee, to be a duetie for euer al the cleane in thine house shall eate of it.
Numbers 18:12	All the fat of the oyle, and all the fat of the wine, and of the wheate, which they shall offer vnto the Lord for their first fruites, I haue giuen them vnto thee.
Numbers 18:13	And the first ripe of al that is in their land, which they shall bring vnto Lord, shalbe thine: all the cleane in thine house shall eate of it.
Numbers 18:14	Euery thing separate from the common vse in Israel, shalbe thine.
Numbers 18:15	All that first openeth the matrice of any flesh, which they shall offer vnto the Lord, of man or beast, shalbe thine: but the first borne of man shalt thou redeeme, and the first borne of the vncleane beast shalt thou redeeme.
Numbers 18:16	And those that are to bee redeemed, shalt thou redeeme from the age of a moneth, according to thy estimation, for the money of fiue shekels, after the shekel of the Sanctuarie, which is twentie gerahs.
Numbers 18:17	But the first borne of a kow, or the first borne of a sheepe, or the first borne of a goate shalt thou not redeeme: for they are holy: thou shalt sprinkle their blood at the altar, and thou shalt burne their fat: it is a sacrifice made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Numbers 18:18	And the flesh of them shalbe thine, as the shake breast, and as the right shoulder shalbe thine.
Numbers 18:19	All the heaue offrings of the holy things which the children of Israel shall offer vnto the Lord, haue I giuen thee, and thy sonnes, and thy daughters with thee, to be a duetie for euer: it is a perpetual couenant of salt before the Lord, to thee, and to thy seede with thee.
Numbers 18:20	And the Lord sayde vnto Aaron, Thou shalt haue none inheritance in their lande, neyther shalt thou haue any parte among them: I am thy part and thine inheritance among the children of Israel.
Numbers 18:21	For beholde, I haue giuen the children of Leui all the tenth in Israel for an inheritance, for their seruice which they serue in the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 18:22	Neyther shall the children of Israel any more come neere the Tabernacle of the Congregation, lest they susteine sinne, and die.
Numbers 18:23	But the Leuites shall do the seruice in the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and they shall beare their sinne: it is a law for euer in your generations, that among the children of Israel they possesse none inheritance.
Numbers 18:24	For the tythes of the children of Israel, which they shall offer as an offring vnto the Lord, I haue giuen the Leuites for an inheritance: therfore I haue said vnto them, Among the children of Israel ye shall possesse none inheritance.
Numbers 18:25	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 18:26	Speake also vnto the Leuites and say vnto them, When ye shall take of the children of Israel the tithes, which I haue giuen you of them for your inheritance, then shall ye take an heaue offring of that same for the Lord, euen the tenth part of the tithe.
Numbers 18:27	And your heaue offering shalbe reckened vnto you, as the corne of the barne, or as the abundance of the wine presse.
Numbers 18:28	So ye shall also offer an heaue offring vnto the Lord of all your tithes, which ye shall receiue of the children of Israel, and ye shall giue thereof the Lords heaue offring to Aaron the Priest.
Numbers 18:29	Ye shall offer of all your gifts al the Lords heaue offrings: of all the fat of the same shall ye offer the holy things thereof.
Numbers 18:30	Therefore thou shalt say vnto them, When ye haue offred the fat thereof, then it shalbe couted vnto the Leuites, as the encrease of the corne floore, or as the encrease of the wine presse.
Numbers 18:31	And ye shall eate it in al places, ye, and your housholdes: for it is your wages for your seruice in the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 18:32	And ye shall beare no sinne by the reason of it, when ye haue offred the fatte of it: neither shall ye pollute the holy things of the children of Israel, lest ye die.
Numbers 19:1	And the Lord spake to Moses, and to Aaron, saying,
Numbers 19:2	This is the ordinance of the lawe, which the Lord hath commanded, saying, Speake vnto the children of Israel that they bring thee a red kow without blemish, wherein is no spot, vpon the which neuer came yoke.
Numbers 19:3	And ye shall giue her vnto Eleazar ye Priest, that hee may bring her without the hoste, and cause her to be slaine before his face.
Numbers 19:4	Then shall Eleazar the Priest take of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle it before the Tabernacle of the Congregation seuen times,
Numbers 19:5	And cause the kow to be burnt in his sight: with her skinne, and her flesh, and her blood, and her doung shall he burne her.
Numbers 19:6	Then shall the Priest take cedar wood, and hyssope and skarlet lace, and cast them in the mids of the fire where the kow burneth.
Numbers 19:7	Then shall the Priest wash his clothes, and he shall wash his flesh in water, and then come into the hoste, and the Priest shalbe vncleane vnto the euen.
Numbers 19:8	Also he that burneth her, shall wash his clothes in water, and wash his flesh in water, and be vncleane vntill euen.
Numbers 19:9	And a man, that is cleane, shall take vp the ashes of the kow, and put them without the hoste in a cleane place: and it shalbe kept for the Congregation of the children of Israel for a sprinkling water: it is a sinne offring.
Numbers 19:10	Therefore he that gathereth the ashes of the kow, shall wash his clothes, and remaine vncleane vntil euen: and it shalbe vnto the children of Israel, and vnto the stranger that dwelleth among them, a statute for euer.
Numbers 19:11	Hee that toucheth the dead body of any man, shalbe vncleane euen seuen dayes.
Numbers 19:12	Hee shall purifie himselfe therewith the third day, and the seuenth day he shall be cleane: but if he purifie not himselfe the thirde day, then the seuenth day he shall not be cleane.
Numbers 19:13	Whosoeuer toucheth ye corps of any man that is dead, and purgeth not himselfe, defileth the Tabernacle of the Lord, and that person shall be cut off from Israel, because the sprinkling water was not sprinkled vpon him: he shall be vncleane, and his vncleannesse shall remaine still vpon him.
Numbers 19:14	This is the law, Whe a man dieth in a tent, all that come into the tent, and all that is in the tent, shalbe vncleane seuen dayes,
Numbers 19:15	And all the vessels that bee open, which haue no couering fastened vpon them, shall be vncleane.
Numbers 19:16	Also whosoeuer toucheth one that is slaine with a sworde in the fielde, or a dead person, or a bone of a dead man, or a graue, shall be vncleane seuen dayes.
Numbers 19:17	Therfore for an vncleane person they shall take of the burnt ashes of the sinne offring, and pure water shalbe put thereto in a vessel.
Numbers 19:18	And a cleane person shall take hyssope and dip it in the water, and sprinkle it vpon the tent, and vpon all the vessels, and on the persons that were therein, and vpon him that touched ye bone, or the slayne, or the dead, or the graue.
Numbers 19:19	And the cleane person shall sprinkle vpon the vncleane the third day, and the seuenth day, and hee shall purifie him selfe the seuenth day, and wash his clothes, and wash himself in water, and shalbe cleane at euen.
Numbers 19:20	But the man that is vncleane and purifieth not himselfe, that person shalbe cut off from among the Congregation, because hee hath defiled the Sanctuarie of the Lord: and the sprinkling water hath not bene sprinkled vpon him: therefore shall he be vncleane.
Numbers 19:21	And it shalbe a perpetual lawe vnto them, that he that sprinkleth the sprinkling water, shall wash his clothes: also hee that toucheth the sprinkling water, shalbe vncleane vntill euen.
Numbers 19:22	And whatsoeuer the vncleane person toucheth, shall be vncleane: and the person that toucheth him, shalbe vncleane vntill the euen.
Numbers 20:1	Then the children of Israel came with ye whole Congregation to the desert of Zin in the first moneth, and the people abode at Cadesh: where Miriam died, and was buried there.
Numbers 20:2	But there was no water for the Congregation, and they assembled them selues against Moses and against Aaron.
Numbers 20:3	And the people chode with Moses, and spake, saying, Would God we had perished, when our brethren died before the Lord.
Numbers 20:4	Why haue ye thus brought the Congregation of the Lord vnto his wildernesse, that both we, and our cattell should die there?
Numbers 20:5	Wherefore nowe haue yee made vs to come vp from Egypt, to bring vs into this miserable place, which is no place of seede, nor figges, nor vines, nor pomegranates? neither is there any water to drinke.
Numbers 20:6	Then Moses and Aaron went from the assemblie vnto the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, and fell vpon their faces: and the glory of the Lord appeared vnto them.
Numbers 20:7	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 20:8	Take the rod, and gather thou and thy brother Aaron the Congregation together, and speake yee vnto the rocke before their eyes, and it shall giue foorth his water, and thou shalt bring them water out of the rocke: so thou shalt giue the Congregation, and their beastes drinke.
Numbers 20:9	Then Moses tooke the rod from before the Lord, as he had commanded him.
Numbers 20:10	And Moses and Aaron gathered the Congregation together before the rocke, and Moses sayd vnto them, Heare nowe, ye rebels: shall we bring you water out of this rocke?
Numbers 20:11	Then Moses lift vp his hande, and with his rod he smote the rocke twise, and the water came out aboundantly: so the Congregation, and their beastes dranke.
Numbers 20:12	Againe the Lord spake vnto Moses, and to Aaron, Because ye beleeued me not, to sanctifie mee in the presence of the children of Israel, therefore ye shall not bring this Congregation into the land which I haue giuen them.
Numbers 20:13	This is the water of Meribah, because the children of Israel stroue with the Lord, and hee was sanctified in them.
Numbers 20:14	Then Moses sent messengers from Kadesh vnto the king of Edom, saying, Thus sayth thy brother Israel, Thou knowest all the trauaile that we haue had,
Numbers 20:15	How our fathers went downe into Egypt, and we dwelt in Egypt a long time, where the Egyptians handled vs euill and our fathers.
Numbers 20:16	But when we cried vnto the Lord, he heard our voyce, and sent an Angel, and hath brought vs out of Egypt, and beholde, wee are in the citie Kadesh, in thine vtmost border.
Numbers 20:17	I pray thee that we may passe through thy countrey: we will not goe through the fieldes nor the vineyardes, neither will we drinke of the water of the welles: we will goe by the kings way, and neither turne vnto the right hand nor to the left, vntill we be past thy borders.
Numbers 20:18	And Edom answered him, Thou shalt not passe by mee, least I come out against thee with the sword.
Numbers 20:19	Then the children of Israel said vnto him, We will goe vp by the hie way: and if I and my cattell drinke of thy water, I will then pay for it: I will onely (without any harme) goe through on my feete.
Numbers 20:20	Hee answered againe, Thou shalt not goe through. The Edom came out against him with much people, and with a mightie power.
Numbers 20:21	Thus Edom denyed to giue Israel passage through his countrey: wherefore Israel turned away from him.
Numbers 20:22	And when the children of Israel with al the Congregation departed from Kadesh, they came vnto the mount Hor.
Numbers 20:23	And the Lord spake vnto Moses and to Aaron in the mount Hor neere the coast of the land of Edom, saying,
Numbers 20:24	Aaron shall be gathered vnto his people: for hee shall not enter into the lande, which I haue giuen vnto the children of Israel, because ye disobeyed my commandement at the water of Meribah.
Numbers 20:25	Take Aaron and Eleazar his sonne, and bring them vp into the mount Hor,
Numbers 20:26	And cause Aaron to put off his garmentes and put them vpon Eleazar his sonne: for Aaron shall be gathered to his fathers, and shall die there.
Numbers 20:27	And Moses did as the Lord had commanded: and they went vp into the mount Hor, in the sight of all the Congregation.
Numbers 20:28	And Moses put off Aarons clothes, and put them vpon Eleazar his sonne: so Aaron dyed there in the top of the mount: and Moses and Eleazar came downe from off the mount.
Numbers 20:29	When al the Congregation sawe that Aaron was dead, al the house of Israel wept for Aaron thirtie dayes.
Numbers 21:1	When King Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt toward the South, heard tel that Israel came by the way of the spies, then fought hee against Israel, and tooke of them prysoners.
Numbers 21:2	So Israel vowed a vowe vnto the Lord, and said, If thou wilt deliuer and giue this people into mine hand, then I wil vtterly destroy their cities.
Numbers 21:3	And the Lord heard the voyce of Israel, and deliuered them the Canaanites: and they vtterly destroied them and their cities, and called ye name of the place Hormah.
Numbers 21:4	After, they departed from the mount Hor by the way of the red Sea, to compasse the land of Edom: and the people were sore grieued because of the way.
Numbers 21:5	And the people spake against God and against Moses, saying, Wherefore haue ye brought vs out of Egypt, to die in the wildernesse? for here is neither bread nor water, and our soule lotheth this light bread.
Numbers 21:6	Wherefore the Lord sent fierie serpents among ye people, which stung the people: so that many of the people of Israel died.
Numbers 21:7	Therefore the people came to Moses and said, We haue sinned: for wee haue spoken against the Lord, and against thee: pray to the Lord, that he take away the serpents from vs: and Moses prayed for the people.
Numbers 21:8	And the Lord said vnto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it vp for a signe, that as many as are bitten, may looke vpon it, and liue.
Numbers 21:9	So Moses made a serpent of brasse, and set it vp for a signe: and when a serpent had bitten a man, then he looked to the serpent of brasse, and liued.
Numbers 21:10	And ye children of Israel departed thence, and pitched in Oboth.
Numbers 21:11	And they departed from Oboth, and pitched in lie-abarim, in the wildernesse, which is before Moab on the Eastside.
Numbers 21:12	They remoued thence, and pitched vpon the riuer of Zared.
Numbers 21:13	Thence they departed, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, which is in the wildernesse, and commeth out of the coasts of the Amorites: (for Arnon is the border of Moab, betweene the Moabites and the Amorites)
Numbers 21:14	Wherefore it shall be spoken in the booke of the battels of the Lord, what thing he did in the red sea, and in the riuers of Arnon,
Numbers 21:15	And at the streame of the riuers that goeth downe to the dwelling of Ar, and lieth vpon the border of Moab.
Numbers 21:16	And from thence they turned to Beer: the same is the well where the Lord said vnto Moses, Assemble the people, and I wil giue them water.
Numbers 21:17	Then Israel sang this song, Rise vp well, sing ye vnto it.
Numbers 21:18	The princes digged this well, the captaines of the people digged it, euen the lawe giuer, with their staues. And from the wildernesse they came to Mattanah,
Numbers 21:19	And from Mattanah to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Bamoth,
Numbers 21:20	And from Bamoth in the valley, that is in the plaine of Moab, to the top of Pisgah that looketh toward Ieshimon.
Numbers 21:21	Then Israel sent messengers vnto Sihon, King of the Amorites, saying,
Numbers 21:22	Let me goe through thy land: we wil not turne aside into the fieldes, nor into the vineyardes, neither drinke of the waters of ye welles: we will goe by the kings way, vntill we be past thy countrey.
Numbers 21:23	But Sihon gaue Israel no licence to passe through his countrey, but Sihon assembled all his people, and went out against Israel into the wildernesse: and he came to Iahoz, and fought against Israel.
Numbers 21:24	But Israel smote him with the edge of the sword, and conquered his land, from Arnon vnto Iabok, euen vnto ye children of Ammon: for the border of the children of Ammon was strong.
Numbers 21:25	And Israel tooke al these cities, and dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites in Heshbon and in all the villages thereof.
Numbers 21:26	For Heshbon was the citie of Sihon the king of the Amorites, which had fought beforetime against the king of the Moabites, and had taken al his land out of his hand, euen vnto Arnon.
Numbers 21:27	Wherefore they that speake in prouerbes, say, Come to Heshbon, let the citie of Sihon bee built and repaired:
Numbers 21:28	For a fire is gone out of Heshbon, and a flame from the citie of Sihon, and hath consumed Ar of the Moabites, and the lords of Bamoth in Arnon.
Numbers 21:29	Wo be to thee, Moab: O people of Chemosh, thou art vndone: he hath suffered his sonnes to be pursued, and his daughters to be in captiuitie to Sihon the king of the Amorites.
Numbers 21:30	Their empire also is lost from Heshbon vnto Dibon, and wee haue destroyed them vnto Nophah, which reacheth vnto Medeba.
Numbers 21:31	Thus Israel dwelt in the lande of the Amorites.
Numbers 21:32	And Moses sent to searche out Iaazer, and they tooke the townes belonging thereto, and rooted out the Amorites that were there.
Numbers 21:33	And they turned and went vp toward Bashan: and Og the King of Bashan came out against them, hee, and all his people, to fight at Edrei.
Numbers 21:34	Then the Lord said vnto Moses, Feare him not: for I haue deliuered him into thine hand and all his people, and his land: and thou shalt do to him as thou diddest vnto Sihon the king of the Amorites, which dwelt at Heshbon.
Numbers 21:35	They smote him therefore, and his sonnes, and all his people, vntill there was none left him: so they conquered his land.
Numbers 22:1	After, the children of Israel departed and pitched in the plaine of Moab on the other side of Iorden from Iericho.
Numbers 22:2	Now Balak the sonne of Zippor sawe all that Israel had done to the Amorites.
Numbers 22:3	And the Moabites were sore afraide of the people, because they were many, and Moab fretted against the children of Israel.
Numbers 22:4	Therfore Moab said vnto the Elders of Midian, Nowe shall this multitude licke vp all that are round about vs, as an oxe licketh vp ye grasse of the fielde: and Balak the sonne of Zippor was King of the Moabites at that time.
Numbers 22:5	Hee sent messengers therefore vnto Balaam the sonne of Beor to Pethor (which is by the riuer of the lande of the children of his folke) to call him, saying, Beholde, there is a people come out of Egypt, which couer the face of the earth, and lye ouer against me.
Numbers 22:6	Come now therefore, I pray thee, and curse me this people (for they are stronger then I) so it may be that I shall be able to smite them, and to driue them out of the land: for I knowe that hee, whome thou blessest, is blessed, and he whom thou cursest, shall be cursed.
Numbers 22:7	And the Elders of Moab, and the Elders of Midian departed, hauing the reward of the soothsaying in their hande, and they came vnto Balaam, and tolde him the wordes of Balak.
Numbers 22:8	Who answered them, Tary here this night, and I will giue you an answere, as the Lord shall say vnto mee. So the princes of Moab abode with Balaam.
Numbers 22:9	Then God came vnto Balaam, and sayde, What men are these with thee?
Numbers 22:10	And Baalam said vnto God, Balak ye sonne of Zippor, king of Moab hath set vnto me, saying,
Numbers 22:11	Beholde, there is a people come out of Egypt and couereth the face of the earth: come nowe, curse them for my sake: so it may be that I shalbe able to ouercome them in battell, and to driue them out.
Numbers 22:12	And God said vnto Balaam, Go not thou with them, neither curse the people, for they are blessed.
Numbers 22:13	And Balaam rose vp in the morning, and sayde vnto ye princes of Balak, Returne vnto your land: for the Lord hath refused to giue me leaue to go with you.
Numbers 22:14	So the princes of Moab rose vp, and went vnto Balak, and sayd, Balaam hath refused to come with vs.
Numbers 22:15	Balak yet sent againe moe princes, and more honourable then they.
Numbers 22:16	Who came to Balaam, and sayde to him, Thus saith Balak the sonne of Zippor, Bee not thou staied, I pray thee, from comming vnto me.
Numbers 22:17	For I wil promote thee vnto great honour, and wil do whatsoeuer thou sayest vnto me: come therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people.
Numbers 22:18	And Balaam answered, and sayde vnto the seruants of Balak, If Balak woulde giue me his house full of siluer and golde, I can not goe beyonde the worde of the Lord my God, to doe lesse or more.
Numbers 22:19	But nowe, I pray you, tary here this night, that I may wit, what the Lord will say vnto mee more.
Numbers 22:20	And God came vnto Balaam by night, and sayd vnto him, If the men come to call thee, rise vp, and goe with them: but onely what thing I say vnto thee, that shalt thou doe.
Numbers 22:21	So Balaam rose vp early, and sadled his asse, and went with the princes of Moab.
Numbers 22:22	And ye wrath of God was kindled, because he went: and the Angel of the Lord stood in the way to be against him, as he rode vpon his asse, and his two seruants were with him.
Numbers 22:23	And when the asse saw the Angel of the Lord stand in the way, and his sworde drawen in his hand, the asse turned out of the way and went into the field, but Balaam smote the asse, to turne her into the way.
Numbers 22:24	Againe the Angel of the Lord stood in a path of the vineyardes, hauing a wall on the one side, and a wall on the other.
Numbers 22:25	And when the asse sawe the Angel of the Lord, she thrust her selfe vnto the wall, and dasht Balaams foote against the wall: wherefore hee smote her againe.
Numbers 22:26	Then the Angel of the Lord went further, and stoode in a narowe place, where was no way to turne, either to the right hand, or to the left.
Numbers 22:27	And when the asse sawe the Angell of the Lord, she lay downe vnder Balaam: therefore Balaam was very wroth, and smote the asse with a staffe.
Numbers 22:28	Then the Lord opened the mouth of the asse, and she saide vnto Balaam, What haue I done vnto thee, that thou hast smitten me nowe three times?
Numbers 22:29	And Balaam saide vnto the asse, Because thou hast mocked me: I woulde there were a sworde in mine hand, for nowe would I kill thee.
Numbers 22:30	And the asse saide vnto Balaam, Am not I thine asse, which thou hast ridden vpon since thy first time vnto this day? haue I vsed at any time to doe thus vnto thee? Who said, Nay.
Numbers 22:31	And the Lord opened the eyes of Balaam, and he sawe the Angel of the Lord standing in the way with his sword drawen in his hande: then he bowed him selfe, and fell flat on his face.
Numbers 22:32	And the Angel of the Lord said vnto him, Wherefore hast thou nowe smitten thine asse three times? beholde, I came out to withstande thee, because thy way is not straight before me.
Numbers 22:33	But the asse sawe me, and turned from me now three times: for els, if she had not turned from me, surely I had euen nowe slaine thee, and saued her aliue.
Numbers 22:34	Then Balaam saide vnto the Angel of the Lord, I haue sinned: for I wist not that thou stoodest in the way against me: now therefore if it displease thee, I will turne home againe.
Numbers 22:35	But the Angel said vnto Balaam, Go with the men: but what I say vnto thee, that shalt thou speake. So Balaam went with ye princes of Balak.
Numbers 22:36	And when Balak heard that Balaam came, he went out to meete him vnto a citie of Moab, which is in the border of Arnon, euen in the vtmost coast.
Numbers 22:37	Then Balak saide vnto Balaam, Did I not sende for thee to call thee? Wherefore camest thou not vnto me? am I not able in deede to promote thee vnto honour?
Numbers 22:38	And Balaam made answere vnto Balak, Lo, I am come vnto thee, and can I nowe say any thing at all? the worde that God putteth in my mouth, that shall I speake.
Numbers 22:39	So Balaam went with Balak, and they came vnto the citie of Huzoth.
Numbers 22:40	Then Balak offred bullockes, and sheepe, and sent thereof to Balaam, and to the princes that were with him.
Numbers 22:41	And on the morowe Balak tooke Balaam, and brought him vp into the hie places of Baal, that thence hee might see the vtmost part of the people.
Numbers 23:1	And Balaam sayd vnto Balak, Builde me here seuen altars, and prepare me here seuen bullockes, and seuen rammes.
Numbers 23:2	And Balak did as Balaam sayd, and Balak and Balaam offred on euery altar a bullocke and a ramme.
Numbers 23:3	Then Balaam sayde vnto Balak, Stande by the burnt offring, and I will goe, if so be that the Lord will come and meete me: and whatsoeuer he sheweth me, I will tell thee: so he went forth alone.
Numbers 23:4	And God met Balaam, and Balaam sayd vnto him, I haue prepared seuen altars, and haue offred vpon euery altar a bullocke and a ramme.
Numbers 23:5	And the Lord put an answere in Balaams mouth, and sayde, Go againe to Balak, and say on this wise.
Numbers 23:6	So when he returned vnto him, loe, hee stoode by his burnt offering, he, and all the princes of Moab.
Numbers 23:7	Then he vttered his parable, and sayde, Balak the king of Moab hath brought mee from Aram out of the mountaines of the East, saying, Come, curse Iaakob for my sake: come, and detest Israel.
Numbers 23:8	How shall I curse, where God hath not cursed? or howe shall I detest, where the Lord hath not detested?
Numbers 23:9	For from the top of the rocks I did see him, and from the hils I did beholde him: lo, the people shall dwell by themselues, and shall not be reckened among the nations.
Numbers 23:10	Who can tell the dust of Iaakob, and the nomber of the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last ende be like his.
Numbers 23:11	Then Balak saide vnto Balaam, What hast thou done vnto mee? I tooke thee to curse mine enemies, and beholde, thou hast blessed them altogether.
Numbers 23:12	And he answered, and said, Must I not take heede to speake that, which the Lord hath put in my mouth?
Numbers 23:13	And Balak sayde vnto him, Come, I pray thee, with mee vnto another place, whence thou mayest see them, and thou shalt see but the vtmost part of them, and shalt not see them all: therefore curse them out of that place for my sake.
Numbers 23:14	And he brought him into Sede-sophim to the top of Pisgah, and built seuen altars, and offred a bullocke, and a ramme on euery altar.
Numbers 23:15	After, he sayde vnto Balak, Stande here by thy burnt offring, and I wil meete the Lord yonder.
Numbers 23:16	And the Lord mette Balaam, and put an answere in his mouth, and sayd, Goe againe vnto Balak, and say thus.
Numbers 23:17	And when he came to him, beholde, hee stoode by his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him: so Balak sayde vnto him, What hath the Lord sayd?
Numbers 23:18	And he vttered his parable, and sayde, Rise vp, Balak, and heare: hearken vnto me, thou sonne of Zippor.
Numbers 23:19	God is not as man, that he should lie, neither as the sonne of man that he shoulde repent: hath he sayde and shall he not do it? and hath he spoken, and shall he not accomplish it?
Numbers 23:20	Behold, I haue receiued commandement to blesse: for he hath blessed, and I cannot alter it.
Numbers 23:21	Hee seeth none iniquitie in Iaakob, nor seeth no transgression in Israel: the Lord his God is with him, and the ioyfull shoute of a king is among them.
Numbers 23:22	God brought them out of Egypt: their strength is as an vnicorne.
Numbers 23:23	For there is no sorcerie in Iaakob, nor soothsaying in Israel: according to this time it shalbe sayde of Iaakob and of Israel, What hath God wrought?
Numbers 23:24	Behold, the people shall rise vp as a lyon, and lift vp himselfe as a yong lyon: hee shall not lye downe, till he eate of the pray, and till he drinke the blood of the slayne.
Numbers 23:25	Then Balak sayde vnto Balaam, Neither curse, nor blesse them at all.
Numbers 23:26	But Balaam answered, and saide vnto Balak, Tolde not I thee, saying, All that the Lord speaketh, that must I do?
Numbers 23:27	Againe Balak sayd vnto Balaam, Come, I pray thee, I wil bring thee vnto another place, if so be it wil please God, that thou mayest thence curse them for my sake.
Numbers 23:28	So Balak brought Balaam vnto the top of Peor, that looketh toward Ieshmon.
Numbers 23:29	Then Balaam sayde vnto Balak, Make me here seuen altars, and prepare me here seuen bullocks, and seuen rammes.
Numbers 23:30	And Balak did as Balaam had sayd, and offred a bullocke and a ram on euery altar.
Numbers 24:1	When Balaam saw that it pleased the Lord to blesse Israel, then he went not, as certaine times before, to set diuinations, but set his face toward the wildernesse.
Numbers 24:2	And Balaam lift vp his eyes, and looked vpon Israel, which dwelt according to their tribes, and the Spirit of God came vpon him.
Numbers 24:3	And he vttered his parable, and sayd, Balaam the sonne of Beor hath sayde, and the man, whose eyes were shut vp, hath sayd,
Numbers 24:4	He hath sayde, which heard the wordes of God, and sawe the vision of the Almightie, and falling in a traunce had his eyes opened:
Numbers 24:5	How goodly are thy tentes, O Iaakob, and thine habitations, O Israel!
Numbers 24:6	As the valleis, are they stretched forth, as gardes by the riuers side, as the aloe trees, which the Lord hath planted, as the cedars beside the waters.
Numbers 24:7	The water droppeth out of his bucket, and his seede shalbe in many waters, and his king shall be hier then Agag, and his kingdome shall bee exalted.
Numbers 24:8	God brought him out of Egypt: his strength shalbe as an vnicorne: he shall eate the nations his enemies, and bruise their bones, and shoote them through with his arrowes.
Numbers 24:9	He coucheth and lieth downe as a yong lion, and as a lion: who shall stirre him vp? blessed is he that blesseth thee, and cursed is he that curseth thee.
Numbers 24:10	Then Balak was very angry with Balaam, and smote his handes together: so Balak sayde vnto Balaam, I sent for thee to curse mine enemies, and beholde, thou hast blessed them nowe three times.
Numbers 24:11	Therefore nowe flee vnto thy place: I thought surely to promote thee vnto honour, but loe, the Lord hath kept thee backe from honour.
Numbers 24:12	Then Balaam answered Balak, Tolde I not also thy messengers, which thou sentest vnto me, saying,
Numbers 24:13	If Balak would giue me his house ful of siluer and gold, I can not passe the commandement of the Lord, to doe either good or bad of mine owne minde? what the Lord shall commaund, the same will I speake.
Numbers 24:14	And nowe behold, I goe vnto my people: come, I will aduertise thee what this people shall doe to thy folke in the later dayes.
Numbers 24:15	And he vttered his parable, and sayd, Balaam the sonne of Beor hath sayde, and the man whose eyes were shut vp, hath sayd,
Numbers 24:16	He hath said that heard the words of God, and hath the knowledge of the most High, and sawe the vision of the Almightie, and falling in a traunce had his eyes opened:
Numbers 24:17	I shall see him, but not nowe: I shall behold him, but not neere: there shall come a starre of Iaakob, and a scepter shall rise of Israel, and shall smite the coastes of Moab, and destroy all the sonnes of Sheth.
Numbers 24:18	And Edom shalbe possessed, and Seir shall be a possession to their enemies: but Israel shall do valiantly.
Numbers 24:19	He also that shall haue dominion shall bee of Iaakob, and shall destroy the remnant of the citie.
Numbers 24:20	And when he looked on Amalek, he vttered his parable, and sayd, Amalek was the first of the nations: but his latter ende shall come to destruction.
Numbers 24:21	And he looked on the Kenites, and vttered his parable, and sayde, Strong is thy dwelling place, and put thy nest in the rocke.
Numbers 24:22	Neuerthelesse, the Kenite shalbe spoyled vntill Asshur cary thee away captiue.
Numbers 24:23	Againe he vttered his parable, and sayd, Alas, who shall liue when God doeth this?
Numbers 24:24	The ships also shall come from the coastes of Chittim, and subdue Asshur, and shall subdue Eber, and he also shall come to destruction.
Numbers 24:25	Then Balaam rose vp, and went and returned to his place: and Balak also went his way.
Numbers 25:1	Nowe whiles Israel abode in Shittim, the people began to commit whoredome with the daughters of Moab:
Numbers 25:2	Which called the people vnto the sacrifice of their gods, and the people ate, and bowed downe to their gods.
Numbers 25:3	And Israel coupled himselfe vnto Baal Peor: wherefore the wrath of the Lord was kindled against Israel:
Numbers 25:4	And the Lord sayde vnto Moses, Take all the heades of the people, and hang them vp before the Lord against ye sunne, that the indignation of the Lords wrath may be turned from Israel.
Numbers 25:5	Then Moses sayd vnto the Iudges of Israel, Euery one slay his men that were ioyned vnto Baal Peor.
Numbers 25:6	And behold, one of the children of Israel came and brought vnto his brethren a Midianitish woman in the sight of Moses, and in the sight of all the Congregation of the children of Israel, who wept before the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation.
Numbers 25:7	And when Phinehas the sonne of Eleazar the sonne of Aaron the Priest sawe it, hee rose vp from the middes of the Congregation, and tooke a speare in his hand,
Numbers 25:8	And followed ye man of Israel into the tent, and thrust them both through: to wit, the man of Israel, and the woman, through her belly: so the plague ceased from the children of Israel.
Numbers 25:9	And there died in that plague, foure and twentie thousand.
Numbers 25:10	Then the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 25:11	Phinehas the sonne of Eleazar, the sonne of Aaron the Priest, hath turned mine anger away from the children of Israel, while hee was zealous for my sake among them: therefore I haue not consumed the children of Israel in my ielousie.
Numbers 25:12	Wherefore say to him, Beholde, I giue vnto him my couenant of peace,
Numbers 25:13	And he shall haue it, and his seede after him, euen the couenant of the priestes office for euer, because he was zealous for his God, and hath made an atonement for the children of Israel.
Numbers 25:14	And the name of the Israelite thus slayne, which was killed with the Midianitish woman, was Zimri the sonne of Salu, prince of the familie of the Simeonites.
Numbers 25:15	And the name of the Midianitish woman, that was slayne, was Cozbi the daughter of Zur, who was head ouer the people of his fathers house in Midian.
Numbers 25:16	Againe ye Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 25:17	Vexe the Midianites, and smite them:
Numbers 25:18	For they trouble you with their wiles, wherewith they haue beguiled you as concerning Peor, and as concerning their sister Cozbi ye daughter of a prince of Midian, which was slayne in the day of the plague because of Peor.
Numbers 26:1	And so after the plague, the Lord spake vnto Moses, and to Eleazar the sonne of Aaron the Priest, saying,
Numbers 26:2	Take the nomber of all the Congregation of the children of Israel from twentie yeere olde and aboue throughout their fathers houses, all that go forth to warre in Israel.
Numbers 26:3	So Moses and Eleazar the Priest spake vnto them in the plaine of Moab, by Iorden towarde Iericho, saying,
Numbers 26:4	From twentie yeere olde and aboue ye shall nomber the people, as the Lord had commanded Moses, and the childre of Israel, when they came out of the land of Egypt.
Numbers 26:5	Reuben the first borne of Israel: the children of Reube were: Hanoch, of whom came the familie of the Hanochites, and of Pallu the familie of the Palluites:
Numbers 26:6	Of Hesron, the familie of the Hesronites: of Carmi, the familie of the Carmites.
Numbers 26:7	These are the families of the Reubenites: and they were in nomber three and fourtie thousand, seuen hundreth and thirtie.
Numbers 26:8	And the sonnes of Pallu, Eliab:
Numbers 26:9	And the sonnes of Eliab, Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram: this Dathan and Abiram were famous in the Congregation, and stroue against Moses and against Aaron in the assemblie of Korah, when they stroue against the Lord.
Numbers 26:10	And the earth opened her mouth, and swalowed them vp with Korah, when the Congregation died, what time the fire consumed, two hundreth and fiftie men, who were for a signe.
Numbers 26:11	Notwithstanding, all the sonnes of Korah dyed not.
Numbers 26:12	And the children of Simeon after their families were: Nemuel, of whom came the familie of the Nemuelites: of Iamin, the familie of the Iaminites: of Iachin, the familie of the Iachinites:
Numbers 26:13	Of Zerah, the familie of the Zarhites: of Shaul, the familie of the Shaulites.
Numbers 26:14	These are the families of the Simeonites: two and twentie thousand and two hundreth.
Numbers 26:15	The sonnes of Gad after their families were: Zephon, of whome came ye familie of the Zephonites: of Haggi, the familie of the Haggites: of Shuni, the familie of the Shunites:
Numbers 26:16	Of Ozni, the familie of the Oznites: of Eri, the familie of the Erites:
Numbers 26:17	Of Arod, the familie of the Arodites: of Areli, the familie of the Arelites.
Numbers 26:18	These are the families of the sonnes of Gad, according to their nombers, fourtie thousand and fiue hundreth.
Numbers 26:19	The sonnes of Iudah, Er and Onan: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
Numbers 26:20	So were the sonnes of Iudah after their families: of Shelah came the familie of ye Shelanites: of Pharez, the familie of the Pharzites, of Zerah, the familie of the Zarhites.
Numbers 26:21	And the sonnes of Pharez were: of Hesron, the familie of the Hesronites: of Hamul, the familie of the Hamulites.
Numbers 26:22	These are the families of Iudah, after their nombers, seuentie and sixe thousande and fiue hundreth.
Numbers 26:23	The sonnes of Issachar, after their families were: Tola, of whom came the familie of the Tolaites: of Pua, the familie of the Punites:
Numbers 26:24	Of Iashub the familie of the Iashubites: of Shimron, the familie of the Shimronites.
Numbers 26:25	These are the families of Issachar, after their nombers, threescore and foure thousand and three hundreth.
Numbers 26:26	The sonnes of Zebulun, after their families were: of Sered, the familie of the Sardites: of Elon, the familie of the Elonites: of Iahleel, the familie of the Iahleelites.
Numbers 26:27	These are the families of the Zebulunites, after their nombers, three score thousande and fiue hundreth.
Numbers 26:28	The sonnes of Ioseph, after their families were Manasseh and Ephraim.
Numbers 26:29	The sonnes of Manasseh were: of Machir, the familie of the Machirites: and Machir begate Gilead: of Gilead came the familie of the Gileadites.
Numbers 26:30	These are the sonnes of Gilead: of Iezer, the familie of the Iezerites: of Helek, the familie of the Helekites.
Numbers 26:31	Of Asriel, the familie of the Asrielites: of Shechem, the familie of Shichmites.
Numbers 26:32	Of Shemida, the familie of the Shemidaites: of Hepher, the familie of the Hepherites.
Numbers 26:33	And Zelophehad the sonne of Hepher had no sonnes, but daughters: and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah.
Numbers 26:34	These are the families of Manasseh, and the nomber of them, two and fiftie thousand and seuen hundreth.
Numbers 26:35	These are the sonnes of Ephraim after their families: of Shuthelah came the familie of the Shuthalhites: of Becher, the familie of the Bachrites: of Tahan, the familie of the Tahanites.
Numbers 26:36	And these are the sonnes of Shuthelah: of Eran the familie of the Eranites.
Numbers 26:37	These are the families of the sonnes of Ephraim after their nombers, two and thirtie thousand and fiue hundreth. these are the sonnes of Ioseph after their families.
Numbers 26:38	These are the sonnes of Beniamin after their families: of Bela came the familie of the Belaites: of Ashbel, the familie of the Ashbelites: of Ahiram, the familie of the Ahiramites:
Numbers 26:39	Of Shupham, the familie of the Suphamites: of Hupham, the familie of the Huphamites.
Numbers 26:40	And the sonnes of Bela were Ard and Naaman: of Ard came the familie of the Ardites, of Naaman, the familie of the Naamites.
Numbers 26:41	These are the sonnes of Beniamin after their families, and their nombers, fiue and fourtie thousand and sixe hundreth.
Numbers 26:42	These are the sonnes of Dan after their families: of Shuham came the familie of the Shuhamites: these are the families of Dan after their housholdes.
Numbers 26:43	All the families of the Shuhamites were after their nombers, threescore and foure thousand, and foure hundreth.
Numbers 26:44	The sonnes of Asher after their families were: of Iimnah, the familie of the Iimnites: of Isui, the familie of the Isuites: of Beriah, the familie of the Berijtes.
Numbers 26:45	The sonnes of Beriah were, of Heber the familie of the Heberites: of Malchiel, the familie of the Malchielites.
Numbers 26:46	And the name of the daughter of Asher was Sarah.
Numbers 26:47	These are the families of the sonnes of Asher after their nombers, three and fifty thousand and foure hundreth.
Numbers 26:48	The sonnes of Naphtali, after their families were: of Iahzeel, the families of the Iahzeelites: of Guni, the familie of the Gunites.
Numbers 26:49	Of Iezer, the familie of the Izrites: of Shillem, the familie of the Shillemites.
Numbers 26:50	These are the families of Naphtali according to their housholdes, and their nomber, fiue and fourtie thousande and foure hundreth.
Numbers 26:51	These are the nombers of the children of Israel: sixe hundreth and one thousand, seuen hundreth and thirtie.
Numbers 26:52	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 26:53	Vnto these the land shalbe deuided for an inheritance, according to the nomber of names.
Numbers 26:54	To many thou shalt giue the more inheritance, and to fewe thou shalt giue lesse inheritance: to euery one according to his nomber shalbe giuen his inheritance.
Numbers 26:55	Notwithstanding, the land shalbe deuided by lot: according to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherite:
Numbers 26:56	According to the lot shall the possession thereof be deuided betweene many and fewe.
Numbers 26:57	These also are the nobers of ye Leuites, after their families: of Gershon came ye familie of the Gershonites: of Kohath, ye familie of the Kohathites: of Merari, the familie of the Merarites.
Numbers 26:58	These are the families of Leui, the familie of the Libnites: the familie of the Hebronites: the familie of the Mahlites: the familie of the Mushites: the familie of the Korhites: and Kohath begate Amram.
Numbers 26:59	And Amrams wife was called Iochebed the daughter of Leui, which was borne vnto Leui in Egypt: and she bare vnto Amram Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam their sister.
Numbers 26:60	And vnto Aaron were borne Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Numbers 26:61	And Nadab and Abihu dyed, because they offred strange fire before the Lord.
Numbers 26:62	And their nombers were three and twentie thousand, all males from a moneth old and aboue: for they were not nombred among the children of Israel, because there was none inheritance giuen them among the children of Israel.
Numbers 26:63	These are the nombers of Moses and Eleazar the Priest which nombred the children of Israel in the plaine of Moab, neere Iorden, towarde Iericho.
Numbers 26:64	And among these there was not a man of them, whome Moses and Aaron the Priest nobred, when they tolde the children of Israel in the wildernes of Sinai.
Numbers 26:65	For the Lord said of them, They shall die in the wildernes: so there was not left a man of them, saue Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh, and Ioshua the sonne of Nun.
Numbers 27:1	Then came the daughters of Zelophehad, the sonne of Hepher, the sonne of Gilead, the sonne of Machir, the sonne of Manasseh, of the familie of Manasseh, the sonne of Ioseph (and the names of his daughters were these, Mahlah, Noah and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah)
Numbers 27:2	And stoode before Moses, and before Eleazar the Priest, and before the Princes, and all the assemblie, at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation, saying,
Numbers 27:3	Our father dyed in the wildernes, and he was not among the assemblie of them that were assembled against the Lord in the companie of Korah, but died in his sinne, and had no sonnes.
Numbers 27:4	Wherefore should the name of our father be taken away from among his familie, because he hath no sonne? giue vs a possession among the brethren of our father.
Numbers 27:5	Then Moses brought their cause before the Lord.
Numbers 27:6	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 27:7	The daughters of Zelophehad speake right: thou shalt giue them a possession to inherite among their fathers brethren, and shalt turne the inheritance of their father vnto them.
Numbers 27:8	Also thou shalt speake vnto the children of Israel, saying, If a man die and haue no sonne, then ye shall turne his inheritaunce vnto his daughter.
Numbers 27:9	And if he haue no daughter, ye shall giue his inheritance vnto his brethren.
Numbers 27:10	And if he haue no brethren, ye shall giue his inheritance vnto his fathers brethren.
Numbers 27:11	And if his father haue no brethren, ye shall giue his inheritance vnto his next kinsman of his familie, and he shall possesse it: and this shall be vnto the children of Israel a law of iudgement, as the Lord hath commanded Moses.
Numbers 27:12	Againe the Lord said vnto Moses, Go vp into this mount of Abarim, and behold ye lande which I haue giuen vnto the children of Israel.
Numbers 27:13	And when thou hast seene it, thou shalt be gathered vnto thy people also, as Aaron thy brother was gathered.
Numbers 27:14	For ye were disobedient vnto my worde in the desert of Zin, in the strife of the assemblie, to sanctifie me in the waters before their eyes. That is the water of Meribah in Kadesh in the wildernesse of Zin.
Numbers 27:15	Then Moses spake vnto the Lord, saying,
Numbers 27:16	Let the Lord God of the spirits of all flesh appoint a man ouer the Congregation,
Numbers 27:17	Who may goe out and in before them, and leade them out and in, that the Congregation of the Lord be not as sheepe, which haue not a shepheard.
Numbers 27:18	And the Lord said vnto Moses, Take thee Ioshua the sonne of Nun, in whom is the Spirite, and put thine handes vpon him,
Numbers 27:19	And set him before Eleazar the Priest, and before all the Congregation, and giue him a charge in their sight.
Numbers 27:20	And giue him of thy glory, that all the Congregation of ye children of Israel may obey.
Numbers 27:21	And he shall stande before Eleazar the Priest, who shall aske counsell for him by the iudgement of Vrim before the Lord: at his worde they shall goe out, and at his worde they shall come in, both he, and all the children of Israel with him and all the Congregation.
Numbers 27:22	So Moses did as the Lord had commanded him, and he tooke Ioshua, and set him before Eleazar the Priest, and before all the Congregation.
Numbers 27:23	Then he put his handes vpon him, and gaue him a charge, as the Lord had spoken by the hand of Moses.
Numbers 28:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 28:2	Command the children of Israel, and say vnto them, Ye shall obserue to offer vnto me in their due season mine offering, and my bread, for my sacrifices made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto me.
Numbers 28:3	Also thou shalt say vnto them, This is the offring made by fire which ye shall offer vnto the Lord, two lambes of a yeere olde without spot, daily, for a continuall burnt offring.
Numbers 28:4	One lambe shalt thou prepare in the morning, and the other lambe shalt thou prepare at euen.
Numbers 28:5	And the tenth part of an Ephah of fine floure for a meate offering mingled with the fourth part of an Hin of beaten oyle.
Numbers 28:6	This shalbe a daily burnt offering, as was made in the mount Sinai for a sweete sauour: it is a sacrifice made by fire vnto the Lord.
Numbers 28:7	And the drinke offring thereof the fourth part of an Hin for one lambe: in the holy place cause to powre the drinke offring vnto the Lord.
Numbers 28:8	And the other lambe thou shalt prepare at euen: as the meate offring of the morning, and as the drinke offering thereof shalt thou prepare this for an offring made by fire of sweete sauour vnto the Lord.
Numbers 28:9	But on the Sabbath day ye shall offer two lambes of a yere old, without spot, and two tenth deales of fine floure for a meate offring mingled with oyle, and the drinke offring thereof.
Numbers 28:10	This is ye burnt offring of euery Sabbath, beside the continuall burnt offring, and drinke offring thereof.
Numbers 28:11	And in the beginning of your moneths, ye shall offer a burnt offring vnto the Lord, two yong bullockes, and a ramme, and seuen lambes of a yeere olde, without spot,
Numbers 28:12	And three tenth deales of fine floure for a meat offring mingled with oyle for one bullocke, and two tenth deales of fine floure for a meate offring, mingled with oyle for one ramme,
Numbers 28:13	And a tenth deale of fine floure mingled with oyle for a meate offring vnto one lambe: for a burnt offring of sweete sauour: it is an offring made by fire vnto the Lord.
Numbers 28:14	And their drinke offrings shalbe halfe an Hin of wine vnto one bullocke, and the thirde part of an Hin vnto a ram, and ye fourth part of an Hin vnto a labe: this is the burnt offring of euery moneth, throughout the moneths of the yeere.
Numbers 28:15	And one hee goat for a sinne offring vnto the Lord shalbe prepared, besides the continuall burnt offring, and his drinke offring.
Numbers 28:16	Also the fourtenth day of the first moneth is the Passeouer of the Lord.
Numbers 28:17	And in ye fiftenth day of the same moneth is the feast: seuen dayes shall vnleauened bread be eaten.
Numbers 28:18	In the first day shalbe an holy conuocation, ye shall do no seruile worke therein.
Numbers 28:19	But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offring vnto the Lord, two yong bullocks, one ram, and seuen lambes of a yeere olde: see that they be without blemish.
Numbers 28:20	And their meate offering shalbe of fine floure mingled with oyle: three tenth deales shall ye prepare for a bullocke, and two tenth deales for a ramme:
Numbers 28:21	One tenth deale shalt thou prepare for euery lambe, euen for the seuen lambes.
Numbers 28:22	And an hee goate for a sinne offering, to make an atonement for you.
Numbers 28:23	Ye shall prepare these, beside the burnt offering in the morning, which is a continuall burnt sacrifice.
Numbers 28:24	After this maner ye shall prepare throughout all the seuen dayes, for the mainteining of the offring made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord: it shall be done beside the continuall burnt offring and drinke offring thereof.
Numbers 28:25	And in ye seuenth day ye shall haue an holy conuocation, wherein ye shall do no seruile work.
Numbers 28:26	Also in the day of your first fruits, when ye bring a newe meate offring vnto the Lord, according to your weekes ye shall haue an holy conuocation, and ye shall do no seruile worke in it:
Numbers 28:27	But ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord, two yong bullocks, a ramme, and seuen lambes of a yeere olde,
Numbers 28:28	And their meat offring of fine floure mingled with oyle, three tenth deales vnto a bullocke, two tenth deales to a ram,
Numbers 28:29	And one tenth deale vnto euery lambe throughout the seuen lambes,
Numbers 28:30	And an hee goate to make an atonement for you:
Numbers 28:31	(Ye shall doe this besides the continuall burnt offring, and his meate offring:) see they be without blemish, with their drinke offrings.
Numbers 29:1	Moreouer, in the first day of the seuenth moneth ye shall haue an holy conuocation: ye shall doe no seruile worke therein: it shall be a day of blowing the trumpets vnto you.
Numbers 29:2	And ye shall make a burnt offering for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord: one yong bullocke, one ram, and seuen lambes of a yeere olde, without blemish.
Numbers 29:3	And their meat offring shalbe of fine floure mingled with oyle, three tenth deales vnto the bullocke, and two tenth deales vnto the ramme,
Numbers 29:4	And one tenth deale vnto one lambe, for the seuen lambes,
Numbers 29:5	And an hee goate for a sinne offering to make an atonement for you,
Numbers 29:6	Beside the burnt offring of the moneth, and his meat offring, and the continual burnt offring, and his meate offring and the drinke offrings of the same, according to their maner, for a sweete sauour: it is a sacrifice made by fire vnto ye Lord.
Numbers 29:7	And ye shall haue in ye tenth day of the seuenth moneth, an holy conuocation: and ye shall humble your soules, and shall not doe any worke therein:
Numbers 29:8	But ye shall offer a burnt offring vnto the Lord for a sweete sauour: one yong bullocke, a ramme, and seuen lambes of a yeere olde: see they be without blemish.
Numbers 29:9	And their meate offering shall be of fine floure mingled with oyle, three tenth deales to a bullocke, and two tenth deales to a ramme,
Numbers 29:10	One tenth deale vnto euery lambe, thoroughout the seuen lambes,
Numbers 29:11	An hee goate for a sinne offring, (beside ye sinne offring to make the atonement and the continual burnt offring and the meat offring thereof) and their drinke offrings.
Numbers 29:12	And in the fifteenth day of the seuenth moneth ye shall haue an holie conuocation: ye shall do no seruile worke therein, but yee shall keepe a feast vnto the Lord seuen daies.
Numbers 29:13	And ye shall offer a burnt offring for a sacrifice made by fire of sweete sauour vnto the Lord, thirteene yong bullockes, two rammes, and fourtene lambes of a yeere olde: they shall bee without blemish.
Numbers 29:14	And their meate offering shall bee of fine floure mingled with oyle, three tenth deales vnto euery bullocke of the thirteene bullockes, two tenth deales to either of the two rammes,
Numbers 29:15	And one tenth deale vnto eche of ye fourteene lambes,
Numbers 29:16	And one hee goate for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, his meate offring, and his drinke offring.
Numbers 29:17	And the second day ye shall offer twelue yong bullockes, two rams, fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish,
Numbers 29:18	With their meate offring and their drinke offrings for the bullockes, for the rammes, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after the maner,
Numbers 29:19	And an hee goate for a sinne offring, (beside the continuall burnt offering and his meate offring) and their drinke offrings.
Numbers 29:20	Also the third day ye shall offer eleuen bullocks, two rams, and fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish,
Numbers 29:21	With their meate offring and their drinke offrings, for the bullockes, for the rams, and for the lambes, after their nomber according to the maner,
Numbers 29:22	And an hee goat for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, and his meate offring and his drinke offring.
Numbers 29:23	And the fourth day ye shall offer tenne bullocks, two rammes, and fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish.
Numbers 29:24	Their meate offring and their drinke offrings, for the bullockes, for the rammes, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after the maner,
Numbers 29:25	And an hee goate for a sinne offering beside the continuall burnt offring, his meate offering and his drinke offering.
Numbers 29:26	In the fifth day also ye shall offer nine bullockes, two rammes, and fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish,
Numbers 29:27	And their meat offering and their drinke offrings for the bullockes, for the rammes, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after the maner,
Numbers 29:28	And an hee goat for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, and his meat offring and his drinke offering.
Numbers 29:29	And in the sixt day ye shall offer eight bullockes, two rams, and fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish,
Numbers 29:30	And their meate offring, and their drinke offrings for the bullockes, for the rammes, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after the maner,
Numbers 29:31	And an hee goat for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, his meate offring and his drinke offrings.
Numbers 29:32	In the seuenth day also ye shall offer seuen bullocks, two rammes and fourteene lambes of a yeere olde without blemish,
Numbers 29:33	And their meate offering and their drinke offrings for the bullockes, for the rammes, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after their maner,
Numbers 29:34	And an hee goate for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, his meate offering and his drinke offring.
Numbers 29:35	In the eight day, yee shall haue a solemne assemblie: yee shall doe no seruile worke therein,
Numbers 29:36	But yee shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire for a sweete sauour vnto the Lord, one bullocke, one ram, and seuen lambes of a yeere old without blemish,
Numbers 29:37	Their meate offring and their drinke offrings for the bullocke, for the ramme, and for the lambes according to their nomber, after the maner,
Numbers 29:38	And an hee goat for a sinne offring, beside the continuall burnt offring, and his meate offring, and his drinke offring.
Numbers 29:39	These things ye shall do vnto the Lord in your feastes, beside your vowes, and your free offrings, for your burnt offrings, and for your meate offrings, and for your drinke offrings and for your peace offrings.
Numbers 30:1	Then Moses spake vnto the children of Israel according to all that the Lord had commanded him,
Numbers 30:2	Moses also spake vnto the heads of ye tribes concerning the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which the Lord hath commanded,
Numbers 30:3	Whosoeuer voweth a vow vnto the Lord, or sweareth an othe to binde him selfe by a bonde, he shall not breake his promise, but shall do according to al that proceedeth out of his mouth.
Numbers 30:4	If a woman also vow a vow vnto the Lord, and binde her selfe by a bonde, being in her fathers house, in the time of her youth,
Numbers 30:5	And her father heare her vowe and bonde, wherewith she hath bound her selfe, and her father hold his peace concerning her, then all her vowes shall stande, and euery bonde, wherewith she hath bound her selfe, shall stand.
Numbers 30:6	But if her father disallow her the same day that he heareth all her vowes and bondes, wherewith she hath bound her selfe, they shall not bee of value, and the Lord will forgiue her, because her father disallowed her.
Numbers 30:7	And if she haue an husband when she voweth or pronounceth ought with her lips, wherewith she bindeth her selfe,
Numbers 30:8	If her husband heard it, and holdeth his peace concerning her, the same day he heareth it, then her vowe shall stande, and her bondes wherewith she bindeth her selfe shall stand in effect.
Numbers 30:9	But if her husband disallow her the same day that hee heareth it, then shall hee make her vowe which shee hath made, and that that shee hath pronounced with her lips, wherewith shee bound her selfe, of none effect: and the Lord will forgiue her.
Numbers 30:10	But euery vowe of a widowe, and of her that is diuorced (wherewith she hath bound her selfe) shall stand in effect with her.
Numbers 30:11	And if she vowed in her husbands house, or bound her selfe streightly with an othe,
Numbers 30:12	And her husband hath heard it, and helde his peace cocerning her, not disalowing her, then all her vowes shall stand, and euery bond, wherewith she bound her selfe, shall stand in effect.
Numbers 30:13	But if her husband disanulled them, the same day that he heard them, nothing that proceeded out of her lippes concerning her vowes or concerning her bondes, shall stand in effect: for her husband hath disanulled them: and the Lord will forgiue her.
Numbers 30:14	So euery vowe, and euery othe or bonde, made to humble the soule, her husband may stablish it, or her husband may breake it.
Numbers 30:15	But if her husband holde his peace concerning her from day to day, then he stablisheth al her vowes and all her bondes which shee hath made: hee hath confirmed them because he held his peace concerning her the same day that hee hearde them.
Numbers 30:16	But if he breake them after that he hath heard them, then shall he beare her iniquitie.
Numbers 30:17	These are the ordinances which the Lord commanded Moses, betweene a man and his wife, and betweene the father and his daughter, being young in her fathers house.
Numbers 31:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 31:2	Reuenge the children of Israel of the Midianites, and afterwarde shalt thou be gathered vnto thy people.
Numbers 31:3	And Moses spake to the people, saying, Harnesse some of you vnto warre, and let them goe against Midian, to execute the vengeance of the Lord against Midian.
Numbers 31:4	A thousande of euery tribe throughout all the tribes of Israel, shall ye sende to the warre.
Numbers 31:5	So there were taken out of the thousands of Israel, twelue thousande prepared vnto warre, of euery tribe a thousand.
Numbers 31:6	And Moses sent them to the warre, euen a thousand of euery tribe, and sent them with Phinehas the sonne of Eleazar the Priest to the warre: and the holy instruments, that is, the trumpets to blow were in his hand.
Numbers 31:7	And they warred against Midian, as the Lord had commanded Moses, and slue all the males.
Numbers 31:8	They slue also the Kings of Midian among them that were slaine: Eui and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur and Reba fiue kings of Midian, and they slue Balaam the sonne of Beor with the sworde:
Numbers 31:9	But the children of Israel tooke the women of Midian prisoners, and their children, and spoyled all their cattell, and all their flockes, and all their goods.
Numbers 31:10	And they burnt all their cities, wherein they dwelt, and all their villages with fire.
Numbers 31:11	And they tooke all the spoyle and all the pray both of men and beastes.
Numbers 31:12	And they brought the captiues and that which they had taken, and the spoyle vnto Moses and to Eleazar the Priest, and vnto the Congregation of the children of Israel, into ye campe in the playne of Moab, which was by Iorden toward Iericho.
Numbers 31:13	Then Moses and Eleazar the Priest, and all the princes of the Congregation went out of the campe to meete them.
Numbers 31:14	And Moses was angry with the captaines of the hoste, with the captaines ouer thousands, and captaines ouer hundreds, which came from the warre and battel.
Numbers 31:15	And Moses sayde vnto them, What? haue ye saued all the women?
Numbers 31:16	Behold, these caused the children of Israel through the counsell of Balaam to commit a trespasse against the Lord, as concerning Peor, and there came a plague among the Congregation of the Lord.
Numbers 31:17	Now therefore, slay all the males among the children, and kill all the women that haue knowen man by carnall copulation.
Numbers 31:18	But all the women children that haue not knowen carnall copulation, keepe aliue for your selues.
Numbers 31:19	And ye shall remaine without the host seuen dayes, all that haue killed any person, and all that haue touched any dead, and purifie both your selues and your prisoners the third day and the seuenth.
Numbers 31:20	Also ye shall purifie euery garment and all that is made of skins and al worke of goates heare, and all things made of wood.
Numbers 31:21	And Eleazar ye Priest sayd vnto the men of warre, which went to the battel, This is the ordinance of the law which the Lord commanded Moses,
Numbers 31:22	As for gold, and siluer, brasse, yron, tynne, and lead:
Numbers 31:23	Euen all that may abide the fire, yee shall make it goe through the fire, and it shalbe cleane: yet, it shalbe purified with the water of purification: and all that suffereth not the fire, yee shall cause to passe by the water.
Numbers 31:24	Ye shall wash also your clothes the seuenth day, and ye shalbe cleane: and afterward ye shall come into the Hoste.
Numbers 31:25	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 31:26	Take the summe of the praie that was taken, both of persons and of cattell, thou and Eleazar the Priest, and the chiefe fathers of the Congregation.
Numbers 31:27	And deuide the praye betweene the souldiers that went to the warre, and all the Congregation.
Numbers 31:28	And thou shalt take a tribute vnto ye Lord of the men of warre, which went out to battel: one person of fiue hundreth, both of the persons, and of the beeues, and of the asses, and of the sheepe.
Numbers 31:29	Yee shall take it of their halfe and giue it vnto Eleazar the Priest, as an heaue offring of the Lord.
Numbers 31:30	But of the halfe of the children of Israel thou shalt take one, taken out of fiftie, both of the persons, of the beeues, of the asses, and of the sheepe, euen of all the cattel: and thou shalt giue them vnto the Leuites, which haue the charge of the Tabernacle of the Lord.
Numbers 31:31	And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:32	And the bootie, to wit, the rest of the praie which the men of warre had spoyled, was sixe hundreth seuentie and fiue thousand sheepe,
Numbers 31:33	And seuentie and two thousand beeues,
Numbers 31:34	And three score and one thousand asses,
Numbers 31:35	And two and thirtie thousande persons in all, of women that had lyen by no man.
Numbers 31:36	And the halfe, to wit, the part of them that went out to warre touching the nomber of sheepe, was three hundreth seuen and thirtie thousand, and fiue hundreth.
Numbers 31:37	And the Lordes tribute of the sheepe was sixe hundreth and seuentie and fiue:
Numbers 31:38	And the beeues were six and thirty thousad, whereof the Lordes tribute was seuentie and two.
Numbers 31:39	And the asses were thirtie thousande and fiue hundreth, whereof the Lordes tribute was three score and one:
Numbers 31:40	And of persons sixtene thousand, whereof the Lordes tribute was two and thirtie persons.
Numbers 31:41	And Moses gaue the tribute of the Lordes offring vnto Eleazar the Priest, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:42	And of the halfe of the children of Israel, which Moses deuided from the men of warre,
Numbers 31:43	(For the halfe that perteined vnto the Congregation, was three hundreth thirtie and seuen thousand sheepe and fiue hundreth,
Numbers 31:44	And sixe and thirtie thousand beeues,
Numbers 31:45	And thirtie thousand asses, and fiue hudreth,
Numbers 31:46	And sixteene thousande persons)
Numbers 31:47	Moses, I say, tooke of the halfe that perteined vnto the children of Israel, one taken out of fiftie, both of the persons, and of the cattell, and gaue them vnto the Leuites, which haue the charge of the Tabernacle of the Lord, as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:48	Then the captaines which were ouer thousandes of the hoste, the captaines ouer the thousandes, and the captaines ouer the hundreds came vnto Moses:
Numbers 31:49	And saide to Moses, Thy seruants haue taken the summe of the men of warre which are vnder our authoritie, and there lacketh not one man of vs.
Numbers 31:50	We haue therefore brought a present vnto the Lord, what euery man found of iewels of golde, bracelets, and cheines, rings, eare ringes, and ornaments of the legges, to make an atonement for our soules before the Lord.
Numbers 31:51	And Moses and Eleazar the Priest tooke the golde of them, and all wrought iewels,
Numbers 31:52	And all the golde of the offring that they offered vp to the Lord (of the captaines ouer thousands and hundreds) was sixteene thousande seuen hundreth and fiftie shekels,
Numbers 31:53	(For the men of warre had spoyled, euery man for him selfe)
Numbers 31:54	And Moses and Eleazar the Priest tooke the golde of the captaines ouer the thousandes, and ouer the hundreds, and brought it into the Tabernacle of the Congregation, for a memoriall of the children of Israel before the Lord.
Numbers 32:1	Nowe the children of Reuben, and the children of Gad had an exceeding great multitude of cattell: and they sawe the lande of Iazer, and the lande of Gilead, that it was an apt place for cattel.
Numbers 32:2	Then the children of Gad, and the childre of Reuben came, and spake vnto Moses and to Eleazar the Priest, and vnto the princes of the Congregation, saying,
Numbers 32:3	The land of Ataroth, and Dibon, and Iazer, and Nimrah, and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Shebam, and Nebo, and Beon,
Numbers 32:4	Which countrey the Lord smote before the Congregation of Israel, is a lande meete for cattell, and thy seruants haue cattell:
Numbers 32:5	Wherefore, said they, if we haue foud grace in thy sight, let this lande be giuen vnto thy seruants for a possession, and bring vs not ouer Iorde.
Numbers 32:6	And Moses said vnto the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuben, Shall your brethren goe to warre, and ye tary heere?
Numbers 32:7	Wherefore now discourage ye the heart of the children of Israel, to goe ouer into the lande, which the Lord hath giuen them?
Numbers 32:8	Thus did your fathers when I sent them from Kadesh-barnea to see the lande.
Numbers 32:9	For when they went vp euen vnto the riuer of Eshcol, and sawe the land: they discouraged the heart of the childre of Israel, that they woulde not goe into the lande, which the Lord had giuen them.
Numbers 32:10	And the Lordes wrath was kindled the same day, and he did sweare, saying,
Numbers 32:11	None of the men that came out of Egypt from twentie yeere olde and aboue, shall see the land for the which I sware vnto Abraham, to Izhak, and to Iaakob, because they haue not wholly followed me:
Numbers 32:12	Except Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh the Kenesite, and Ioshua the sonne of Nun: for they haue constantly followed the Lord.
Numbers 32:13	And the Lord was very angry with Israel, and made them wander in the wildernesse fourty yeeres, vntill all the generation that had done euill in the sight of the Lord were consumed.
Numbers 32:14	And behold, ye are risen vp in your fathers steade as an encrease of sinfull men, still to augment the fierce wrath of the Lord, toward Israel.
Numbers 32:15	For if ye turne away from following him, he will yet againe leaue the people in the wildernesse, and ye shall destroy all this folke.
Numbers 32:16	And they went neere to him, and said, We will builde sheepe foldes here for our sheepe, and for our cattell, and cities for our children.
Numbers 32:17	But we our selues will be readie armed to go before the children of Israel, vntill we haue brought them vnto their place: but our childre shall dwell in the defenced cities, because of the inhabitants of the lande.
Numbers 32:18	We will not returne vnto our houses, vntil the children of Israel haue inherited, euery man his inheritance.
Numbers 32:19	Neither wil we inherite with them beyond Iorden and on that side, because our inheritance is fallen to vs on this side Iorden Eastwarde.
Numbers 32:20	And Moses saide vnto them, If ye will doe this thing, and goe armed before the Lord to warre:
Numbers 32:21	And will goe euery one of you in harnesse ouer Iorden before the Lord, vntill he hath cast out his enemies from his sight:
Numbers 32:22	And vntill the land be subdued before the Lord, then ye shall returne and be innocent toward the Lord, and toward Israel: and this land shalbe your possession before the Lord.
Numbers 32:23	But if ye will not doe so, beholde, ye haue sinned against the Lord, and be sure, that your sinne will finde you out.
Numbers 32:24	Builde you then cities for your children and folds for your sheepe, and do that ye haue spoke.
Numbers 32:25	Then the children of Gad and the children of Reuben spake vnto Moses, saying, Thy seruats will doe as my lorde commandeth:
Numbers 32:26	Our childre, our wiues, our sheepe, and al our cattell shall remaine there in the cities of Gilead,
Numbers 32:27	But thy seruants will goe euery one armed to warre before the Lord for to fight, as my lorde saith.
Numbers 32:28	So concerning them, Moses commanded Eleazar the Priest, and Ioshua the sonne of Nun, and the chiefe fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel:
Numbers 32:29	And Moses said vnto them, If the children of Gad, and the children of Reuben, will go with you ouer Iorden, all armed to fight before the Lord, then when the land is subdued before you, ye shall giue the the lad of Gilead for a possessio:
Numbers 32:30	But if they will not goe ouer with you armed, then they shall haue their possessions amog you in the land of Canaan.
Numbers 32:31	And the children of Gad, and the children of Reuben answered, saying, As the Lord hath said vnto thy seruants, so will we doe.
Numbers 32:32	We will goe armed before the Lord into the lande of Canaan: that the possession of our inheritance may be to vs on this side Iorden.
Numbers 32:33	So Moses gaue vnto them, euen to the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuben, and to halfe the tribe of Manasseh the sonne of Ioseph, the kingdome of Sihon King of the Amorites, and the kingdome of Og King of Bashan, the lande with the cities thereof and coastes, euen the cities of the countrey round about.
Numbers 32:34	Then the children of Gad built Dibon, and Ataroth, and Aroer,
Numbers 32:35	And Atroth, Shophan, and Iazer, and Iogbehah,
Numbers 32:36	And Beth-nimrah, and Beth-haran, defenced cities: also sheepe foldes.
Numbers 32:37	And the children of Reuben built Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Kiriathaim,
Numbers 32:38	And Nebo, and Baal-meon, and turned their names, and Shibmah: and gaue other names vnto the cities which they built.
Numbers 32:39	And the children of Machir the sonne of Manasseh went to Gilead, and tooke it, and put out the Amorites that dwelt therein.
Numbers 32:40	Then Moses gaue Gilead vnto Machir the sonne of Manasseh, and he dwelt therein.
Numbers 32:41	And Iair the sonne of Manasseh went and tooke the small townes thereof, and called them Hauoth Iair.
Numbers 32:42	Also Nobah went and tooke Kenath, with the villages thereof and called it Nobah, after his owne name.
Numbers 33:1	These are the iourneyes of the children of Israel, which went out of the land of Egypt according to their bands vnder the hand of Moses and Aaron.
Numbers 33:2	And Moses wrote their going out by their iourneies according to ye commandement of the Lord: so these are ye iourneies of their going out.
Numbers 33:3	Nowe they departed from Rameses the first moneth, euen the fifteenth day of the first moneth, on the morowe after the Passeouer: and the children of Israel went out with an hie hand in the sight of all the Egyptians.
Numbers 33:4	(For the Egyptians buried all their first borne, which the Lord had smitten among them: vpon their gods also the Lord did execution.)
Numbers 33:5	And the children of Israel remoued from Rameses, and pitched in Succoth.
Numbers 33:6	And they departed from Succoth, and pitched in Etham, which is in the edge of the wildernesse.
Numbers 33:7	And they remoued from Etham, and turned againe vnto Pi-hahiroth, which is before Baal-zephon, and pitched before Migdol.
Numbers 33:8	And they departed from before Hahiroth, and went through the middes of the Sea into the wildernesse, and went three dayes iourney in the wildernesse of Etham, and pitched in Marah.
Numbers 33:9	And they remoued from Marah, and came vnto Elim, and in Elim were twelue fountaines of water, and seuentie palme trees, and they pitched there.
Numbers 33:10	And they remoued from Elim, and camped by the red Sea.
Numbers 33:11	And they remoued from the red Sea, and lay in the wildernesse of Sin.
Numbers 33:12	And they tooke their iourney out of the wildernesse of Sin, and set vp their tentes in Dophkah.
Numbers 33:13	And they departed from Dophkah, and lay in Alush.
Numbers 33:14	And they remoued from Alush, and lay in Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drinke.
Numbers 33:15	And they departed from Rephidim, and pitched in the wildernesse of Sinai.
Numbers 33:16	And they remoued from the desert of Sinai, and pitched in Kibroth Hattaauah.
Numbers 33:17	And they departed from Kibroth Hattaauah, and lay at Hazeroth.
Numbers 33:18	And they departed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithmah.
Numbers 33:19	And they departed from Rithmah, and pitched at Rimmon Parez.
Numbers 33:20	And they departed from Rimmon Parez, and pitched in Libnah.
Numbers 33:21	And they remoued from Libnah, and pitched in Rissah.
Numbers 33:22	And they iourneyed from Rissah, and pitched in Kehelathah.
Numbers 33:23	And they went from Kehelathah, and pitched in mount Shapher.
Numbers 33:24	And they remoued from mount Shapher, and lay in Haradah.
Numbers 33:25	And they remoued from Haradah, and pitched in Makheloth.
Numbers 33:26	And they remoued from Makheloth, and lay in Tahath.
Numbers 33:27	And they departed from Tahath, and pitched in Tarah.
Numbers 33:28	And they remoued from Tarah, and pitched in Mithkah.
Numbers 33:29	And they went from Mithkah, and pitched in Hashmonah.
Numbers 33:30	And they departed from Hashmonah, and lay in Moseroth.
Numbers 33:31	And they departed from Moseroth, and pitched in Bene-iaakan.
Numbers 33:32	And they remoued from Bene-iaakan, and lay in Hor-hagidgad.
Numbers 33:33	And they went from Hor-hagidgad, and pitched in Iotbathah.
Numbers 33:34	And they remoued from Iotbathah, and lay in Ebronah.
Numbers 33:35	And they departed from Ebronah, and lay in Ezion-gaber.
Numbers 33:36	And they remoued from Ezion-gaber, and pitched in the wildernesse of Zin, which is Kadesh.
Numbers 33:37	And they remooued from Kadesh, and pitched in mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom.
Numbers 33:38	(And Aaron the Priest went vp into mount Hor, at the commandement of the Lord, and died there, in the fourtieth yeere after the children of Israel were come out of the lande of Egypt, in the first day of the fifth moneth.
Numbers 33:39	And Aaron was an hundreth, and three and twentie yeere olde, when hee dyed in mount Hor.
Numbers 33:40	And King Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the South of the land of Canaan, heard of the comming of the children of Israel)
Numbers 33:41	And they departed from mount Hor, and pitched in Zalmonah.
Numbers 33:42	And they departed from Zalmonah, and pitched in Punon.
Numbers 33:43	And they departed from Punon, and pitched in Oboth.
Numbers 33:44	And they departed from Oboth, and pitched in Iie-abarim, in the borders of Moab.
Numbers 33:45	And they departed from Iim, and pitched in Dibon-gad.
Numbers 33:46	And they remooued from Dibon-gad, and lay in Almon-diblathaim.
Numbers 33:47	And they remooued from Almon-diblathaim, and pitched in the mountaines of Abarim before Nebo.
Numbers 33:48	And they departed from the mountaines of Abarim, and pitched in the plaine of Moab, by Iorden toward Iericho.
Numbers 33:49	And they pitched by Iorden, from Bethieshimoth vnto Abel-shittim in the playne of Moab.
Numbers 33:50	And the Lord spake vnto Moses in the playne of Moab, by Iorden towarde Iericho, saying,
Numbers 33:51	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, When ye are come ouer Iorden to enter into the land of Canaan,
Numbers 33:52	Ye shall then driue out all the inhabitants of the land before you, and destroy all their pictures, and breake asunder all their images of metall, and plucke downe all their hie places.
Numbers 33:53	And ye shall possesse the lande and dwell therein: for I haue giue you ye land to possesse it.
Numbers 33:54	And ye shall inherite the land by lot according to your families: to the more yee shall giue more inheritance, and to the fewer the lesse inheritance. Where the lot shall fall to any man, that shall be his: according to the tribes of your fathers shall ye inherite.
Numbers 33:55	But if ye will not driue out the inhabitants of the land before you, then those which yee let ramaine of them, shalbe prickes in your eyes, and thornes in your sides, and shall vexe you in the land wherein ye dwell.
Numbers 33:56	Moreouer, it shall come to passe, that I shall doe vnto you, as I thought to do vnto them.
Numbers 34:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 34:2	Commande the children of Israel, and say vnto them, When yee come into the land of Canaan, this is the land that shall fall vnto your inheritance: that is, the land of Canaan with the coastes thereof.
Numbers 34:3	And your Southquarter shalbe from the wildernesse of Zin to the borders of Edom: so that your Southquarter shall be from the salt Sea coast Eastwarde:
Numbers 34:4	And the border shall compasse you from the South to Maaleh-akrabbim, and reach to Zin, and goe out from the South to Kadesh-barnea: thence it shall stretch to Hazar-addar, and go along to Azmon.
Numbers 34:5	And the border shall compasse from Azmon vnto the riuer of Egypt, and shall goe out to the Sea.
Numbers 34:6	And your Westquarter shall bee the great Sea: euen that border shalbe your Westcoast.
Numbers 34:7	And this shall bee your Northquarter: yee shall marke out your border from the great Sea vnto mount Hor.
Numbers 34:8	From mount Hor ye shall point out till it come vnto Hamath, and the end of the coast shall be at Zedad.
Numbers 34:9	And the coast shall reach out to Ziphron, and goe out at Hazar-enan. this shalbe your Northquarter.
Numbers 34:10	And ye shall marke out your Eastquarter from Hazar-enan to Shepham.
Numbers 34:11	And the coast shall goe downe from Shepham to Riblah, and from the Eastside of Ain: and the same border shall descend and goe out at the side of the sea of Chinneereth Eastward.
Numbers 34:12	Also that border shall goe downe to Iorden, and leaue at the salt Sea. this shalbe your land with the coastes thereof round about.
Numbers 34:13	Then Moses commanded the children of Israel, saying, This is the lande which yee shall inherite by lot, which the Lord commanded to giue vnto nine tribes and halfe the tribe.
Numbers 34:14	For the tribe of the children of Reuben, according to the housholdes of their fathers, and the tribe of the children of Gad, according to their fathers housholdes, and halfe the tribe of Manasseh, haue receiued their inheritance.
Numbers 34:15	Two tribes and an halfe tribe haue receiued their inheritance on this side of Iorden toward Iericho full East.
Numbers 34:16	Againe the Lord spake to Moses, saying,
Numbers 34:17	These are the names of the men which shall deuide ye land vnto you: Eleazar the Priest, and Ioshua the sonne of Nun.
Numbers 34:18	And ye shall take also a prince of euerie tribe to deuide the land.
Numbers 34:19	The names also of the men are these: Of the tribe of Iudah, Caleb ye sonne of Iephunneh.
Numbers 34:20	And of the tribe of the sonnes of Simeon, Shemuel the sonne of Ammihud.
Numbers 34:21	Of the tribe of Beniamin, Elidad the sonne of Chislon.
Numbers 34:22	Also of the tribe of the sonnes of Dan, the prince Bukki, the sonne of Iogli.
Numbers 34:23	Of the sonnes of Ioseph: of the tribe of the sonnes of Manasseh, the prince Hanniel the sonne of Ephod.
Numbers 34:24	And of the tribe of the sonnes of Ephraim, the prince Kemuel, the sonne of Shiphtan.
Numbers 34:25	Of the tribe also of the sonnes of Zebulun, the prince Elizaphan, the sonne of Parnach.
Numbers 34:26	So of the tribe of the sonnes of Issachar, the prince Paltiel the sonne of Azzan.
Numbers 34:27	Of the tribe also of the sonnes of Asher, the prince Ahihud, the sonne of Shelomi.
Numbers 34:28	And of the tribe of the sonnes of Naphtali, the prince Pedahel, the sonne of Ammihud.
Numbers 34:29	These are they, whome the Lord commanded to deuide the inheritance vnto the children of Israel, in the land of Canaan.
Numbers 35:1	And the Lord spake vnto Moses in the plaine of Moab by Iorden, toward Iericho, saying,
Numbers 35:2	Commande ye children of Israel, that they giue vnto the Leuites of the inheritace of their possession, cities to dwell in: yee shall giue also vnto the Leuites the suburbes of the cities round about them.
Numbers 35:3	So they shall haue the cities to dwell in, and their suburbes shall be for their cattell, and for their substance, and for all their beasts.
Numbers 35:4	And the suburbes of the cities, which ye shall giue vnto the Leuites, from the wall of the citie outward, shalbe a thousand cubites round about.
Numbers 35:5	And yee shall measure without the citie of the Eastside, two thousand cubites: and of the Southside, two thousand cubites: and of the Westside, two thousand cubites: and of ye Northside, two thousand cubites: and the citie shalbe in ye middes. this shalbe the measure of the suburbes of their cities.
Numbers 35:6	And of the cities which yee shall giue vnto the Leuites, there shalbe sixe cities for refuge, which ye shall appoint, that he which killeth, may flee thither: and to them yee shall adde two and fourtie cities more.
Numbers 35:7	All the cities which yee shall giue to the Leuites, shalbe eight and fourtie cities: them shall ye giue with their suburbes.
Numbers 35:8	And concerning the cities which yee shall giue, of the possession of the children of Israel: of many ye shall take more, and of few ye shall take lesse: euery one shall giue of his cities vnto the Leuites, according to his inheritance, which hee inheriteth.
Numbers 35:9	And the Lord spake vnto Moses, saying,
Numbers 35:10	Speake vnto the children of Israel, and say vnto them, When ye be come ouer Iorden into the land of Canaan,
Numbers 35:11	Ye shall appoint you cities, to bee cities of refuge for you, that the slayer, which slayeth any person vnwares, may flee thither.
Numbers 35:12	And these cities shalbe for you a refuge from the auenger, that he which killeth, die not, vntill he stand before the Congregation in iudgement.
Numbers 35:13	And of the cities which ye shall giue, sixe cities shall ye haue for refuge.
Numbers 35:14	Ye shall appoint three on this side Iorden, and ye shall appoint three cities in the lande of Canaan which shalbe cities of refuge.
Numbers 35:15	These six cities shalbe a refuge for the children of Israel, and for the stranger, and for him that dwelleth among you, that euery one which killeth any person vnwares, may flee thither.
Numbers 35:16	And if one smite another with an instrument of yron that hee die, hee is a murtherer, and the murtherer shall die the death.
Numbers 35:17	Also if hee smite him by casting a stone, wherewith hee may be slaine, and he die, hee is a murtherer, and the murtherer shall die the death.
Numbers 35:18	Or if he smite him with an hand weapon of wood, wherewith he may be slaine, if he die, he is a murtherer, and the murtherer shall die the death.
Numbers 35:19	The reuenger of the blood himselfe shall slay the murtherer: when he meeteth him, he shall slay him.
Numbers 35:20	But if hee thrust him of hate, or hurle at him by laying of wait, that he die,
Numbers 35:21	Or smite him through enimitie with his hand, that he die, he that smote him shall die ye death: for hee is a murtherer: the reuenger of the blood shall slay the murtherer when he meeteth him.
Numbers 35:22	But if he pusshed him vnaduisedly, and not of hatred, or cast vpon him any thing, without laying of waite,
Numbers 35:23	Or any stone (whereby he might be slaine) and sawe him not, or caused it to fall vpon him, and he die, and was not his enemie, neither sought him any harme,
Numbers 35:24	Then the Congregation shall iudge betweene the slayer and the auenger of blood according to these lawes.
Numbers 35:25	And the Congregation shall deliuer the slayer out of the hande of the auenger of blood, and the Congregation shall restore him vnto the citie of his refuge, whither hee was fled: and hee shall abide there vnto the death of the hie Priest, which is anointed with the holy oyle.
Numbers 35:26	But if the slayer come without the borders of the citie of his refuge, whither he was fled,
Numbers 35:27	And the reuenger of blood finde him without the borders of the citie of his refuge, and the reueger of blood slay ye murtherer, he shalbe giltles,
Numbers 35:28	Because he should haue remained in the citie of his refuge, vntill the death of the hie Priest: and after the death of the hie Priest, the slayer shall returne vnto the land of his possession.
Numbers 35:29	So these thinges shall be a lawe of iudgement vnto you, throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
Numbers 35:30	Whosoeuer killeth any person, the Iudge shall slay the murtherer, through witnesses: but one witnesse shall not testifie against a person to cause him to die.
Numbers 35:31	Moreouer ye shall take no recompense for the life of the murtherer, which is worthy to die: but he shalbe put to death.
Numbers 35:32	Also ye shall take no recompense for him that is fled to the citie of his refuge, that he should come againe, and dwell in the lande, before the death of the hie Priest.
Numbers 35:33	So ye shall not pollute the land wherein ye shall dwell: for blood defileth the land: and the land cannot be clensed of the blood that is shed therein, but by the blood of him that shed it.
Numbers 35:34	Defile not therefore the lande which yee shall inhabite, For I dwell in the middes thereof: for I the Lord dwel among the children of Israel.
Numbers 36:1	Then the chiefe fathers of the familie of the sonnes of Gilead, the sonne of Machir, the sonne of Manasseh, of the families of the sones of Ioseph, came, and spake before Moses, and before the princes, the chiefe fathers of the children of Israel,
Numbers 36:2	And saide, The Lord commanded my lord to giue the land to inherit by lot to the children of Israel: and my lord was commanded by the Lord, to giue the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother vnto his daughters.
Numbers 36:3	If they bee married to any of the sonnes of the other tribes of the children of Israel, then shall their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of our fathers, and shalbe put vnto the inheritance of the tribe whereof they shalbe: so shall it be taken away from the lot of our inheritance.
Numbers 36:4	Also when the Iubile of the children of Israel commeth, then shall their inheritance be put vnto the inheritance of the tribe whereof they shall be: so shall their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.
Numbers 36:5	Then Moses commanded the children of Israel, according to the word of the Lord, saying, The tribe of the sonnes of Ioseph haue said well.
Numbers 36:6	This is the thing that the Lord hath commanded, concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, They shall be wiues, to whome they thinke best, onely to the familie of the tribe of their father shall they marry:
Numbers 36:7	So shall not the inheritance of the children of Israel remoue from tribe to tribe, for euery one of the children of Israel shall ioyne himselfe to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers.
Numbers 36:8	And euery daughter that possesseth any inheritance of the tribes of the children of Israel, shalbe wife vnto one of the familie of the tribe of her father: that the children of Israel may enioye euery man the inheritance of their fathers.
Numbers 36:9	Neither shall the inheritance go about from tribe to tribe: but euery one of the tribes of the childre of Israel shall sticke to his own inheritace.
Numbers 36:10	As the Lord commanded Moses, so did the daughters of Zelophehad.
Numbers 36:11	For Mahlah, Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Noah the daughters of Zelophehad were married vnto their fathers brothers sonnes,
Numbers 36:12	They were wiues to certaine of the families of the sonnes of Manasseh the sonne of Ioseph: so their inheritance remained in the tribe of the familie of their father.
Numbers 36:13	These are the commandements and lawes which the Lord commanded by the hand of Moses, vnto the children of Israel in the plaine of Moab, by Iorden toward Iericho.

===== BOOK: Obadiah =====
Obadiah 1:1	The vision of Obadiah. Thus saith the Lord God against Edom, We haue heard a rumour from the Lord, and an ambassadour is sent among the heathen: arise, and let vs rise vp against her to battel.
Obadiah 1:2	Beholde, I haue made thee small among the heathen: thou art vtterly despised.
Obadiah 1:3	The pride of thine heart hath deceiued thee: thou that dwellest in the cleftes of the rockes, whose habitation is hie, that saith in his heart, Who shall bring me downe to the ground?
Obadiah 1:4	Though thou exalt thy selfe as the eagle, and make thy nest among the starres, thence will I bring thee downe, sayth the Lord.
Obadiah 1:5	Came theeues to thee or robbers by night? howe wast thou brought to silence? woulde they not haue stolen, til they had ynough? if the grape gatherers came to thee, woulde they not leaue some grapes?
Obadiah 1:6	Howe are the things of Esau sought vp, and his treasures searched?
Obadiah 1:7	All the men of thy confederacie haue driuen thee to ye borders: the men that were at peace with thee, haue deceiued thee, and preuailed against thee: they that eate thy bread, haue laid a wound vnder thee: there is none vnderstanding in him.
Obadiah 1:8	Shall not I in that day, saith the Lord, euen destroy the wise men out of Edom, and vnderstanding from the mount of Esau?
Obadiah 1:9	And thy strong men, O Teman, shall bee afraide, because euery one of the mount of Esau shalbe cut off by slaughter.
Obadiah 1:10	For thy crueltie against thy brother Iaakob, shame shall couer thee, and thou shalt be cut off for euer.
Obadiah 1:11	When thou stoodest on the other side, in the day that the strangers caried away his substance, and straungers entred into his gates, and cast lots vpon Ierusalem, euen thou wast as one of them.
Obadiah 1:12	But thou shouldest not haue beholden the day of thy brother, in the day that hee was made a stranger, neither shouldest thou haue reioyced ouer the children of Iudah, in the day of their destruction: thou shouldest not haue spoken proudly in the day of affliction.
Obadiah 1:13	Thou shouldest not haue entred into the gate of my people, in the day of their destruction, neither shouldest thou haue once looked on their affliction in the day of their destruction, nor haue layde hands on their substance in the day of their destruction.
Obadiah 1:14	Neyther shouldest thou haue stande in the crosse wayes to cut off them, that shoulde escape, neither shouldest thou haue shut vp the remnant thereof in the day of affliction.
Obadiah 1:15	For the day of the Lord is neere, vpon all the heathen: as thou hast done, it shall bee done to thee: thy reward shall returne vpon thine head.
Obadiah 1:16	For as yee haue drunke vpon mine holy Mountaine, so shall all the heathen drinke continually: yea, they shall drinke and swallow vp, and they shalbe as though they had not bene.
Obadiah 1:17	But vpon mount Zion shalbe deliuerance, and it shalbe holy, and the house of Iaakob shall possesse their possessions,
Obadiah 1:18	And the house of Iaakob shalbe a fire, and the house of Ioseph a flame, and the house of Esau as stubble, and they shall kindle in them and deuoure them: and there shall bee no remnant of the house of Esau for the Lord hath spoken it.
Obadiah 1:19	And they shall possesse the South side of the mount of Esau, and the plaine of the Philistims: and they shall possesse the fieldes of Ephraim, and the fieldes of Samaria, and Beniamin shall haue Gilead.
Obadiah 1:20	And the captiuitie of this host of the children of Israel, which were among the Canaanites, shall possesse vnto Zarephath, and the captiuitie of Ierusalem, which is in Sepharad, shall possesse the cities of the South.
Obadiah 1:21	And they that shall saue, shall come vp to mount Zion to iudge the mount of Esau, and the kingdome shalbe the Lords.

===== BOOK: Philemon =====
Philemon 1:1	Paul a prisoner of Iesus Christ, and our brother Timotheus, vnto Philemon our deare friende, and fellowe helper,
Philemon 1:2	And to our deare sister Apphia, and to Archippus our fellowe souldier, and to the Church that is in thine house:
Philemon 1:3	Grace be with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
Philemon 1:4	I giue thanks to my God, making mention alwaies of thee in my praiers,
Philemon 1:5	(When I heare of thy loue and faith, which thou hast toward the Lord Iesus, and towarde all Saintes)
Philemon 1:6	That the fellowship of thy faith may bee made effectuall, and that whatsoeuer good thing is in you through Christ Iesus, may be knowen.
Philemon 1:7	For we haue great ioy and consolation in thy loue, because by thee, brother, the Saintes bowels are comforted.
Philemon 1:8	Wherefore, though I bee very bolde in Christ to commaund thee that which is conuenient,
Philemon 1:9	Yet for loues sake I rather beseeche thee, though I be as I am, euen Paul aged, and euen nowe a prisoner for Iesus Christ.
Philemon 1:10	I beseeche thee for my sonne Onesimus, whome I haue begotten in my bondes,
Philemon 1:11	Which in times past was to thee vnprofitable, but nowe profitable both to thee and to me,
Philemon 1:12	Whome I haue sent againe: thou therefore receiue him, that is mine owne bowels,
Philemon 1:13	Whom I woulde haue reteined with mee, that in thy steade he might haue ministred vnto me in the bondes of the Gospel.
Philemon 1:14	But without thy minde woulde I doe nothing, that thy benefite should not be as it were of necessitie, but willingly.
Philemon 1:15	It may be that he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest receiue him for euer,
Philemon 1:16	Not now as a seruant, but aboue a seruant, euen as a brother beloued, specially to me: howe much more then vnto thee, both in the flesh and in the Lord?
Philemon 1:17	If therefore thou count our thinges common, receiue him as my selfe.
Philemon 1:18	If he hath hurt thee, or oweth thee ought, that put on mine accounts.
Philemon 1:19	I Paul haue written this with mine owne hande: I will recompense it, albeit I doe not say to thee, that thou owest moreouer vnto me euen thine owne selfe.
Philemon 1:20	Yea, brother, let mee obteine this pleasure of thee in the Lord: comfort my bowels in the Lord.
Philemon 1:21	Trusting in thine obedience, I wrote vnto thee, knowing that thou wilt do eue more then I say.
Philemon 1:22	Moreouer also prepare mee lodging: for I trust through your prayers I shall be freely giuen vnto you.
Philemon 1:23	There salute thee Epaphras my felowe prisoner in Christ Iesus,
Philemon 1:24	Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas and Luke, my felowe helpers.
Philemon 1:25	The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with your spirit, Amen. ‘Written from Rome to Philemon, and send by Onesimus a seruant.’

===== BOOK: Philippians =====
Philippians 1:1	Paul and Timotheus the seruants of IESVS CHRIST, to all the Saintes in Christ Iesus which are at Philippi, with the Bishops, and Deacons:
Philippians 1:2	Grace be with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
Philippians 1:3	I thanke my God, hauing you in perfect memorie,
Philippians 1:4	(Alwayes in all my praiers for all you, praying with gladnesse)
Philippians 1:5	Because of the fellowship which ye haue in the Gospel, from the first day vnto nowe.
Philippians 1:6	And I am persuaded of this same thing, that he that hath begunne this good worke in you, wil perfourme it vntill the day of Iesus Christ,
Philippians 1:7	As it becommeth me so to iudge of you all, because I haue you in remembrance that both in my bands, and in my defence, and confirmation of the Gospell you all were partakers of my grace.
Philippians 1:8	For God is my recorde, howe I long after you all from the very heart roote in Iesus Christ.
Philippians 1:9	And this I pray, that your loue may abound, yet more and more in knowledge, and in all iudgement,
Philippians 1:10	That ye may alowe those things which are best, that ye may be pure, and without offence vntill the day of Christ,
Philippians 1:11	Filled with the fruites of righteousnesse, which are by Iesus Christ vnto the glorie and praise of God.
Philippians 1:12	I would ye vnderstood, brethren, that the things which haue come vnto me, are turned rather to the furthering of the Gospell,
Philippians 1:13	So that my bandes in Christ are famous throughout all the iudgement hall, and in all other places,
Philippians 1:14	In so much that many of the brethren in the Lord are boldened through my bandes, and dare more frankely speake the word.
Philippians 1:15	Some preache. Christ euen through enuie and strife, and some also of good will.
Philippians 1:16	The one part preacheth Christ of contention and not purely, supposing to adde more affliction to my bandes.
Philippians 1:17	But the others of loue, knowing that I am set for the defence of the Gospell.
Philippians 1:18	What then? yet Christ is preached all maner wayes, whether it be vnder a pretence, or syncerely: and I therein ioye: yea and will ioye.
Philippians 1:19	For I knowe that this shall turne to my saluation through your prayer, and by the helpe of the Spirit of Iesus Christ,
Philippians 1:20	As I feruently looke for, and hope, that in nothing I shalbe ashamed, but that with all confidence, as alwayes, so nowe Christ shalbe magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death.
Philippians 1:21	For Christ is to me both in life, and in death aduantage.
Philippians 1:22	And whether to liue in the flesh were profitable for me, and what to chuse I knowe not.
Philippians 1:23	For I am distressed betweene both, desiring to be loosed and to be with Christ, which is best of all.
Philippians 1:24	Neuerthelesse, to abide in the flesh, is more needefull for you.
Philippians 1:25	And this am I sure of, that I shall abide, and with you all continue, for your furtherance and ioy of your faith,
Philippians 1:26	That ye may more aboundantly reioyce in IESVS CHRIST for me, by my comming to you againe.
Philippians 1:27	Onely let your conuersation be, as it becommeth the Gospel of Christ, that whether I come and see you, or els be absent, I may heare of your matters that ye continue in one Spirit, and in one mind, fighting together through the faith of the Gospel.
Philippians 1:28	And in nothing feare your aduersaries, which is to them a token of perdition, and to you of saluation, and that of God.
Philippians 1:29	For vnto you it is giuen for Christ, that not onely ye should beleeue in him, but also suffer for his sake,
Philippians 1:30	Hauing the same fight, which ye sawe in me, and nowe heare to be in me.
Philippians 2:1	If there be therfore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of loue, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any compassion and mercie,
Philippians 2:2	Fulfill my ioye, that ye be like minded, hauing the same loue, being of one accorde, and of one iudgement,
Philippians 2:3	That nothing be done through contention or vaine glory, but that in meekenesse of minde euery man esteeme other better then himselfe.
Philippians 2:4	Looke not euery man on his owne things, but euery man also on the things of other men.
Philippians 2:5	Let the same minde be in you that was euen in Christ Iesus,
Philippians 2:6	Who being in ye forme of God, thought it no robberie to be equall with God:
Philippians 2:7	But he made himself of no reputation, and tooke on him ye forme of a seruant, and was made like vnto men, and was founde in shape as a man.
Philippians 2:8	He humbled himselfe, and became obedient vnto the death, euen the death of the Crosse.
Philippians 2:9	Wherefore God hath also highly exalted him, and giuen him a Name aboue euery name,
Philippians 2:10	That at the Name of Iesus shoulde euery knee bowe, both of things in heauen, and things in earth, and things vnder the earth,
Philippians 2:11	And that euery tongue shoulde confesse that Iesus Christ is the Lord, vnto the glory of God the Father.
Philippians 2:12	Wherefore my beloued, as ye haue alwayes obeyed me, not as in my presence only, but now much more in mine absence, so make an end of your owne saluation with feare and trembling.
Philippians 2:13	For it is God which worketh in you, both the will and the deede, euen of his good pleasure.
Philippians 2:14	Do all things without murmuring and reasonings,
Philippians 2:15	That ye may be blamelesse, and pure, and the sonnes of God without rebuke in the middes of a naughtie and crooked nation, among whom yee shine as lights in the world,
Philippians 2:16	Holding forth the worde of life, that I may reioyce in the day of Christ, that I haue not runne in vaine, neither haue laboured in vaine.
Philippians 2:17	Yea, and though I bee offered vp vpon the sacrifice, and seruice of your faith, I am glad, and reioyce with you all.
Philippians 2:18	For the same cause also be ye glad, and reioyce with me.
Philippians 2:19	And I trust in the Lord Iesus, to sende Timotheus shortly vnto you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I knowe your state.
Philippians 2:20	For I haue no man like minded, who will faithfully care for your matters.
Philippians 2:21	For all seeke their owne, and not that which is Iesus Christes.
Philippians 2:22	But yee knowe the proofe of him, that as a sonne with the father, hee hath serued with me in the Gospel.
Philippians 2:23	Him therefore I hope to send assoone as I knowe howe it will goe with me,
Philippians 2:24	And trust in the Lord, that I also my selfe shall come shortly.
Philippians 2:25	But I supposed it necessarie to sende my brother Epaphroditus vnto you, my companion in labour, and fellowe souldier, euen your messenger, and he that ministred vnto me such things as I wanted.
Philippians 2:26	For he longed after all you, and was full of heauinesse, because yee had heard that hee had beene sicke.
Philippians 2:27	And no doubt he was sicke, very neere vnto death: but God had mercie on him, and not on him onely, but on me also, least I should haue sorowe vpon sorowe.
Philippians 2:28	I sent him therefore the more diligently, that when yee shoulde see him againe, yee might reioyce, and I might be the lesse sorowfull.
Philippians 2:29	Receiue him therefore in the Lord with all gladnesse, and make much of such:
Philippians 2:30	Because that for the woorke of Christ he was neere vnto death, and regarded not his life, to fulfill that seruice which was lacking on your part towarde me.
Philippians 3:1	Moreouer, my brethren, reioyce in the Lord. It grieueth mee not to write the same things to you, and for you it is a sure thing.
Philippians 3:2	Beware of dogges: beware of euil workers: beware of the concision.
Philippians 3:3	For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the spirite, and reioyce in Christ Iesus, and haue no confidence in the flesh:
Philippians 3:4	Though I might also haue confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, much more I,
Philippians 3:5	Circumcised the eight day, of the kinred of Israel, of the tribe of Beniamin, an Ebrewe of the Ebrewes, by the Lawe a Pharise.
Philippians 3:6	Concerning zeale, I persecuted ye Church: touching the righteousnesse which is in the Law, I was vnrebukeable.
Philippians 3:7	But the thinges that were vantage vnto me, the same I counted losse for Christes sake.
Philippians 3:8	Yea, doubtlesse I thinke all thinges but losse for the excellent knowledge sake of Christ Iesus my Lord, for whome I haue counted all things losse, and doe iudge them to bee dongue, that I might winne Christ,
Philippians 3:9	And might bee founde in him, that is, not hauing mine owne righteousnesse, which is of the Lawe, but that which is through the faith of Christ, euen the righteousnesse which is of God through faith,
Philippians 3:10	That I may know him, and the vertue of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his afflictions, and be made conformable vnto his death,
Philippians 3:11	If by any meanes I might attaine vnto the resurrection of the dead:
Philippians 3:12	Not as though I had alreadie attained to it, either were alreadie perfect: but I follow, if that I may comprehend that for whose sake also I am comprehended of Christ Iesus.
Philippians 3:13	Brethren, I count not my selfe, that I haue attained to it, but one thing I doe: I forget that which is behinde, and endeuour my selfe vnto that which is before,
Philippians 3:14	And follow hard toward the marke, for the prise of the hie calling of God in Christ Iesus.
Philippians 3:15	Let vs therefore as many as be perfect, be thus minded: and if yee be otherwise minded, God shall reueile euen the same vnto you.
Philippians 3:16	Neuerthelesse, in that whereunto wee are come, let vs proceede by one rule, that wee may minde one thing.
Philippians 3:17	Brethren, bee followers of mee, and looke on them, which walke so, as yee haue vs for an ensample.
Philippians 3:18	For many walke, of whom I haue told you often, and nowe tell you weeping, that they are the enemies of the Crosse of Christ:
Philippians 3:19	Whose ende is damnation, whose God is their bellie, and whose glorie is to their shame, which minde earthly things.
Philippians 3:20	But our conuersation is in heauen, from whence also we looke for the Sauiour, euen the Lord Iesus Christ,
Philippians 3:21	Who shall change our vile bodie, that it may be fashioned like vnto his glorious body, according to the working, whereby hee is able euen to subdue all things vnto him selfe.
Philippians 4:1	Therefore, my brethre, beloued and longed for, my ioy and my crowne, so continue in the Lord, yee beloued.
Philippians 4:2	I pray Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of one accord in the Lord,
Philippians 4:3	Yea, and I beseech thee, faithfull yokefellow, helpe those women, which laboured with me in the Gospel, with Clement also, and with other my fellowe labourers, whose names are in the booke of life.
Philippians 4:4	Reioyce in the Lord alway, againe I say, reioyce.
Philippians 4:5	Let your patient minde be knowen vnto all men. The Lord is at hand.
Philippians 4:6	Be nothing carefull, but in all thinges let your requestes be shewed vnto God in praier, and supplication with giuing of thankes.
Philippians 4:7	And the peace of God which passeth all vnderstanding, shall preserue your heartes and mindes in Christ Iesus.
Philippians 4:8	Furthermore, brethre, whatsoeuer things are true, whatsoeuer things are honest, whatsoeuer thinges are iust, whatsoeuer thinges are pure, whatsoeuer thinges are worthie loue, whatsoeuer things are of good report, if there be any vertue, or if there be any praise, thinke on these things,
Philippians 4:9	Which yee haue both learned and receiued, and heard, and seene in mee: those things doe, and the God of peace shalbe with you.
Philippians 4:10	Nowe I reioyce also in the Lord greatly, that nowe at the last your care for mee springeth afresh, wherein notwithstanding ye were careful, but yee lacked opportunitie.
Philippians 4:11	I speake not because of want: for I haue learned in whatsoeuer state I am, therewith to bee content.
Philippians 4:12	And I can be abased, and I can abounde: euery where in all things I am instructed, both to be full, and to be hungrie, and to abounde, and to haue want.
Philippians 4:13	I am able to do al things through the helpe of Christ, which strengtheneth me.
Philippians 4:14	Notwithstanding yee haue well done, that yee did communicate to mine affliction.
Philippians 4:15	And yee Philippians knowe also that in the beginning of the Gospell, when I departed from Macedonia, no Church communicated with me, concerning the matter of giuing and receiuing, but yee onely.
Philippians 4:16	For euen when I was in Thessalonica, yee sent once, and afterward againe for my necessitie,
Philippians 4:17	Not that I desire a gift: but I desire the fruit which may further your reckoning.
Philippians 4:18	Now I haue receiued all, and haue plentie: I was euen filled, after that I had receiued of Epaphroditus that which came from you, an odour that smellleth sweete, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasant to God.
Philippians 4:19	And my God shall fulfill all your necessities through his riches with glorie in Iesus Christ.
Philippians 4:20	Vnto God euen our Father be praise for euermore, Amen.
Philippians 4:21	Salute all the Saintes in Christ Iesus. The brethren, which are with me, greete you.
Philippians 4:22	All the Saintes salute you, and most of all they which are of Cesars houshold.
Philippians 4:23	The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with you all, Amen. ‘Written to the Philippians from Rome, and sent by Epaphroditus.’

===== BOOK: Proverbs =====
Proverbs 1:1	The Parables of Salomon the sonne of Dauid King of Israel,
Proverbs 1:2	To knowe wisdome, and instruction, to vnderstand ye wordes of knowledge,
Proverbs 1:3	To receiue instruction to do wisely, by iustice and iudgement and equitie,
Proverbs 1:4	To giue vnto the simple, sharpenesse of wit, and to the childe knowledge and discretion.
Proverbs 1:5	A wise man shall heare and increase in learning, and a man of vnderstanding shall attayne vnto wise counsels,
Proverbs 1:6	To vnderstand a parable, and the interpretation, the wordes of ye wise, and their darke sayings.
Proverbs 1:7	The feare of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge: but fooles despise wisedome and instruction.
Proverbs 1:8	My sonne, heare thy fathers instruction, and forsake not thy mothers teaching.
Proverbs 1:9	For they shalbe a comely ornament vnto thine head, and as chaines for thy necke.
Proverbs 1:10	My sonne, if sinners doe intise thee, consent thou not.
Proverbs 1:11	If they say, Come with vs, we will lay waite for blood, and lie priuilie for the innocent without a cause:
Proverbs 1:12	We wil swallow them vp aliue like a graue euen whole, as those that goe downe into the pit:
Proverbs 1:13	We shall finde all precious riches, and fill our houses with spoyle:
Proverbs 1:14	Cast in thy lot among vs: we will all haue one purse:
Proverbs 1:15	My sonne, walke not thou in the way with them: refraine thy foote from their path.
Proverbs 1:16	For their feete runne to euill, and make haste to shed blood.
Proverbs 1:17	Certainely as without cause the net is spred before the eyes of all that hath wing:
Proverbs 1:18	So they lay waite for blood and lie priuily for their liues.
Proverbs 1:19	Such are the wayes of euery one that is greedy of gaine: he would take away the life of the owners thereof.
Proverbs 1:20	Wisdome cryeth without: she vttereth her voyce in the streetes.
Proverbs 1:21	She calleth in the hye streete, among the prease in the entrings of the gates, and vttereth her wordes in the citie, saying,
Proverbs 1:22	O ye foolish, howe long will ye loue foolishnes? and the scornefull take their pleasure in scorning, and the fooles hate knowledge?
Proverbs 1:23	(Turne you at my correction: loe, I will powre out my mind vnto you, and make you vnderstand my wordes)
Proverbs 1:24	Because I haue called, and ye refused: I haue stretched out mine hand, and none woulde regarde.
Proverbs 1:25	But ye haue despised all my counsell, and would none of my correction.
Proverbs 1:26	I will also laugh at your destruction, and mocke, when your feare commeth.
Proverbs 1:27	Whe your feare cometh like sudden desolation, and your destruction shall come like a whirle wind: whe affliction and anguish shall come vpon you,
Proverbs 1:28	Then shall they call vpon me, but I will not answere: they shall seeke me early, but they shall not finde me,
Proverbs 1:29	Because they hated knowledge, and did not chuse the feare of the Lord.
Proverbs 1:30	They would none of my counsell, but despised all my correction.
Proverbs 1:31	Therefore shall they eate of ye fruite of their owne way, and be filled with their owne deuises.
Proverbs 1:32	For ease slaieth the foolish, and the prosperitie of fooles destroyeth them.
Proverbs 1:33	But he that obeyeth me, shall dwell safely, and be quiet from feare of euill.
Proverbs 2:1	My sonne, if thou wilt receiue my wordes, and hide my commandements within thee,
Proverbs 2:2	And cause thine eares to hearken vnto wisdome, and encline thine heart to vnderstanding,
Proverbs 2:3	(For if thou callest after knowledge, and cryest for vnderstanding:
Proverbs 2:4	If thou seekest her as siluer, and searchest for her as for treasures,
Proverbs 2:5	Then shalt thou vnderstand the feare of the Lord, and finde the knowledge of God.
Proverbs 2:6	For the Lord giueth wisdome, out of his mouth commeth knowledge and vnderstanding.
Proverbs 2:7	He preserueth the state of the righteous: he is a shielde to them that walke vprightly,
Proverbs 2:8	That they may keepe the wayes of iudgement: and he preserueth the way of his Saintes)
Proverbs 2:9	Then shalt thou vnderstand righteousnes, and iudgement, and equitie, and euery good path.
Proverbs 2:10	When wisdome entreth into thine heart, and knowledge deliteth thy soule,
Proverbs 2:11	Then shall counsell preserue thee, and vnderstanding shall keepe thee,
Proverbs 2:12	And deliuer thee from the euill way, and from the man that speaketh froward things,
Proverbs 2:13	And from them that leaue the wayes of righteousnes to walke in the wayes of darkenes:
Proverbs 2:14	Which reioyce in doing euill, and delite in the frowardnesse of the wicked,
Proverbs 2:15	Whose wayes are crooked and they are lewde in their paths.
Proverbs 2:16	And it shall deliuer thee from the strange woman, euen from the stranger, which flattereth with her wordes.
Proverbs 2:17	Which forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the couenant of her God.
Proverbs 2:18	Surely her house tendeth to death, and her paths vnto the dead.
Proverbs 2:19	All they that goe vnto her, returne not againe, neither take they holde of the wayes of life.
Proverbs 2:20	Therefore walke thou in the way of good men, and keepe the wayes of the righteous.
Proverbs 2:21	For the iust shall dwell in the land, and the vpright men shall remaine in it.
Proverbs 2:22	But the wicked shalbe cut off from ye earth, and the transgressours shalbe rooted out of it.
Proverbs 3:1	My sonne, forget not thou my Lawe, but let thine heart keepe my commandements.
Proverbs 3:2	For they shall increase the length of thy dayes and the yeeres of life, and thy prosperitie.
Proverbs 3:3	Let not mercie and trueth forsake thee: binde them on thy necke, and write them vpon the table of thine heart.
Proverbs 3:4	So shalt thou finde fauour and good vnderstanding in the sight of God and man.
Proverbs 3:5	Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and leane not vnto thine owne wisdome.
Proverbs 3:6	In all thy wayes acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy wayes.
Proverbs 3:7	Be not wise in thine owne eyes: but feare the Lord, and depart from euill.
Proverbs 3:8	So health shalbe vnto thy nauel, and marowe vnto thy bones.
Proverbs 3:9	Honour the Lord with thy riches, and with the first fruites of all thine increase.
Proverbs 3:10	So shall thy barnes be filled with abundance, and thy presses shall burst with newe wine.
Proverbs 3:11	My sonne, refuse not the chastening of the Lord, neither be grieued with his correction.
Proverbs 3:12	For the Lord correcteth him, whome he loueth, euen as the father doeth the childe in whom he deliteth.
Proverbs 3:13	Blessed is the man that findeth wisedome, and the man that getteth vnderstanding.
Proverbs 3:14	For the marchandise thereof is better then the marchandise of siluer, and the gaine thereof is better then golde.
Proverbs 3:15	It is more precious then pearles: and all things that thou canst desire, are not to be compared vnto her.
Proverbs 3:16	Length of dayes is in her right hand, and in her left hand riches and glory.
Proverbs 3:17	Her wayes are wayes of pleasure, and all her pathes prosperitie.
Proverbs 3:18	She is a tree of life to them that lay holde on her, and blessed is he that retaineth her.
Proverbs 3:19	The Lord by wisdome hath layde the foundation of the earth, and hath stablished the heauens through vnderstanding.
Proverbs 3:20	By his knowledge the depthes are broken vp, and the cloudes droppe downe the dewe.
Proverbs 3:21	My sonne, let not these things depart from thine eyes, but obserue wisdome, and counsell.
Proverbs 3:22	So they shalbe life to thy soule, and grace vnto thy necke.
Proverbs 3:23	Then shalt thou walke safely by thy way: and thy foote shall not stumble.
Proverbs 3:24	If thou sleepest, thou shalt not bee afraide, and when thou sleepest, thy sleepe shalbe sweete.
Proverbs 3:25	Thou shalt not feare for any sudden feare, neither for the destruction of the wicked, when it commeth.
Proverbs 3:26	For the Lord shall be for thine assurance, and shall preserue thy foote from taking.
Proverbs 3:27	Withhold not the good from the owners thereof, though there be power in thine hand to doe it.
Proverbs 3:28	Say not vnto thy neighbour, Go and come againe, and to morow wil I giue thee, if thou now haue it.
Proverbs 3:29	Intend none hurt against thy neighbour, seeing he doeth dwell without feare by thee.
Proverbs 3:30	Striue not with a man causelesse, when he hath done thee no harme.
Proverbs 3:31	Bee not enuious for the wicked man, neither chuse any of his wayes.
Proverbs 3:32	For the frowarde is abomination vnto the Lord: but his secret is with the righteous.
Proverbs 3:33	The curse of the Lord is in the house of the wicked: but he blesseth the habitation of the righteous.
Proverbs 3:34	With the scornefull he scorneth, but hee giueth grace vnto the humble.
Proverbs 3:35	The wise shall inherite glorie: but fooles dishonour, though they be exalted.
Proverbs 4:1	Heare, O ye children, the instruction of a father, and giue eare to learne vnderstanding.
Proverbs 4:2	For I doe giue you a good doctrine: therefore forsake yee not my lawe.
Proverbs 4:3	For I was my fathers sonne, tender and deare in the sight of my mother,
Proverbs 4:4	When he taught me, and sayde vnto me, Let thine heart holde fast my woordes: keepe my commandements, and thou shalt liue.
Proverbs 4:5	Get wisedom: get vnderstading: forget not, neither decline from the woordes of my mouth.
Proverbs 4:6	Forsake her not, and shee shall keepe thee: loue her and shee shall preserue thee.
Proverbs 4:7	Wisedome is the beginning: get wisedome therefore: and aboue all thy possession get vnderstanding.
Proverbs 4:8	Exalt her, and she shall exalt thee: she shall bring thee to honour, if thou embrace her.
Proverbs 4:9	She shall giue a comely ornamet vnto thine head, yea, she shall giue thee a crowne of glorie.
Proverbs 4:10	Heare, my sonne, and receiue my wordes, and the yeeres of thy life shalbe many.
Proverbs 4:11	I haue taught thee in ye way of wisedom, and led thee in the pathes of righteousnesse.
Proverbs 4:12	Whe thou goest, thy gate shall not be strait, and when thou runnest, thou shalt not fall.
Proverbs 4:13	Take holde of instruction, and leaue not: keepe her, for shee is thy life.
Proverbs 4:14	Enter not into the way of the wicked, and walke not in the way of euill men.
Proverbs 4:15	Auoide it, and goe not by it: turne from it, and passe by.
Proverbs 4:16	For they can not sleepe, except they haue done euill, and their sleepe departeth except they cause some to fall.
Proverbs 4:17	For they eate the breade of wickednesse, and drinke the wine of violence.
Proverbs 4:18	But the way of the righteous shineth as the light, that shineth more and more vnto the perfite day.
Proverbs 4:19	The way of the wicked is as the darkenes: they knowe not wherein they shall fall.
Proverbs 4:20	My sonne, hearken vnto my wordes, incline thine eare vnto my sayings.
Proverbs 4:21	Let them not depart from thine eyes, but keepe them in the middes of thine heart.
Proverbs 4:22	For they are life vnto those that find them, and health vnto all their flesh.
Proverbs 4:23	Keepe thine heart with all diligence: for thereout commeth life.
Proverbs 4:24	Put away from thee a froward mouth, and put wicked lippes farre from thee.
Proverbs 4:25	Let thine eyes beholde the right, and let thine eyelids direct thy way before thee.
Proverbs 4:26	Ponder the path of thy feete, and let all thy waies be ordred aright.
Proverbs 4:27	Turne not to the right hande, nor to the left, but remooue thy foote from euill.
Proverbs 5:1	My sonne, hearken vnto my wisedome, and incline thine eare vnto my knowledge.
Proverbs 5:2	That thou maiest regarde counsell, and thy lippes obserue knowledge.
Proverbs 5:3	For the lippes of a strange woman drop as an honie combe, and her mouth is more soft then oyle.
Proverbs 5:4	But the end of her is bitter as wormewood, and sharpe as a two edged sworde.
Proverbs 5:5	Her feete goe downe to death, and her steps take holde on hell.
Proverbs 5:6	She weigheth not the way of life: her paths are moueable: thou canst not knowe them.
Proverbs 5:7	Heare yee me nowe therefore, O children, and depart not from the wordes of my mouth.
Proverbs 5:8	Keepe thy way farre from her, and come not neere the doore of her house,
Proverbs 5:9	Least thou giue thine honor vnto others, and thy yeeres to the cruell:
Proverbs 5:10	Least the stranger should be silled with thy strength, and thy labours bee in the house of a stranger,
Proverbs 5:11	And thou mourne at thine end, (when thou hast consumed thy flesh and thy bodie)
Proverbs 5:12	And say, How haue I hated instruction, and mine heart despised correction!
Proverbs 5:13	And haue not obeied the voyce of them that taught mee, nor enclined mine eare to them that instructed me!
Proverbs 5:14	I was almost brought into all euil in ye mids of the Congregation and assemblie.
Proverbs 5:15	Drinke the water of thy cisterne, and of the riuers out of the middes of thine owne well.
Proverbs 5:16	Let thy fountaines flow foorth, and the riuers of waters in the streetes.
Proverbs 5:17	But let them bee thine, euen thine onely, and not the strangers with thee.
Proverbs 5:18	Let thy fountaine be blessed, and reioyce with the wife of thy youth.
Proverbs 5:19	Let her be as the louing hinde and pleasant roe: let her brests satisfie thee at all times, and delite in her loue continually.
Proverbs 5:20	For why shouldest thou delite, my sonne, in a strange woman, or embrace the bosome of a stranger?
Proverbs 5:21	For the waies of man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he pondereth all his pathes.
Proverbs 5:22	His owne iniquities shall take the wicked himselfe, and he shall be holden with the cordes of his owne sinne.
Proverbs 5:23	Hee shall die for fault of instruction, and shall goe astray through his great follie.
Proverbs 6:1	My sonne, if thou be surety for thy neighbour, and hast striken hands with the stranger,
Proverbs 6:2	Thou art snared with the wordes of thy mouth: thou art euen taken with the woordes of thine owne mouth.
Proverbs 6:3	Doe this nowe, my sonne, and deliuer thy selfe: seeing thou art come into the hande of thy neighbour, goe, and humble thy selfe, and sollicite thy friends.
Proverbs 6:4	Giue no sleepe to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids.
Proverbs 6:5	Deliuer thy selfe as a doe from the hande of the hunter, and as a birde from the hande of the fouler.
Proverbs 6:6	Goe to the pismire, O sluggarde: beholde her waies, and be wise.
Proverbs 6:7	For shee hauing no guide, gouernour, nor ruler,
Proverbs 6:8	Prepareth her meat in the sommer, and gathereth her foode in haruest.
Proverbs 6:9	Howe long wilt thou sleepe, O sluggarde? when wilt thou arise out of thy sleepe?
Proverbs 6:10	Yet a litle sleepe, a litle slumber, a litle folding of the hands to sleepe.
Proverbs 6:11	Therefore thy pouertie commeth as one that trauaileth by the way, and thy necessitie like an armed man.
Proverbs 6:12	The vnthriftie man and the wicked man walketh with a froward mouth.
Proverbs 6:13	He maketh a signe with his eyes: he signifieth with his feete: he instructeth with his fingers.
Proverbs 6:14	Lewde things are in his heart: he imagineth euill at all times, and raiseth vp contentions.
Proverbs 6:15	Therefore shall his destruction come speedily: hee shall be destroyed suddenly without recouerie.
Proverbs 6:16	These sixe things doeth the Lord hate: yea, his soule abhorreth seuen:
Proverbs 6:17	The hautie eyes, a lying tongue, and the hands that shed innocent blood,
Proverbs 6:18	An heart that imagineth wicked enterprises, feete that be swift in running to mischiefe,
Proverbs 6:19	A false witnesse that speaketh lyes, and him that rayseth vp contentions among brethren.
Proverbs 6:20	My sonne, keepe thy fathers commandement, and forsake not thy mothers instruction.
Proverbs 6:21	Binde them alway vpon thine heart, and tye them about thy necke.
Proverbs 6:22	It shall leade thee, when thou walkest: it shall watch for thee, when thou sleepest, and when thou wakest, it shall talke with thee.
Proverbs 6:23	For the commandement is a lanterne, and instruction a light: and corrections for instruction are the way of life,
Proverbs 6:24	To keepe thee from the wicked woman, and from ye flatterie of ye tongue of a strange woman.
Proverbs 6:25	Desire not her beautie in thine heart, neither let her take thee with her eye lids.
Proverbs 6:26	For because of the whorish woman a man is brought to a morsell of bread, and a woman wil hunt for the precious life of a man.
Proverbs 6:27	Can a man take fire in his bosome, and his clothes not be burnt?
Proverbs 6:28	Or can a man go vpon coales, and his feete not be burnt?
Proverbs 6:29	So he that goeth in to his neighbours wife, shall not be innocent, whosoeuer toucheth her.
Proverbs 6:30	Men do not despise a thiefe, when he stealeth, to satisfie his soule, because he is hungrie.
Proverbs 6:31	But if he be founde, he shall restore seuen folde, or he shall giue all the substance of his house.
Proverbs 6:32	But he that committeth adulterie with a woman, he is destitute of vnderstanding: he that doeth it, destroyeth his owne soule.
Proverbs 6:33	He shall finde a wounde and dishonour, and his reproch shall neuer be put away.
Proverbs 6:34	For ielousie is the rage of a man: therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance.
Proverbs 6:35	He cannot beare the sight of any raunsome: neither will he consent, though thou augment the giftes.
Proverbs 7:1	My sonne, keepe my wordes, and hide my commandements with thee.
Proverbs 7:2	Keepe my commandements, and thou shalt liue, and mine instruction as the apple of thine eyes.
Proverbs 7:3	Binde them vpon thy fingers, and write them vpon the table of thine heart.
Proverbs 7:4	Say vnto wisedome, Thou art my sister: and call vnderstanding thy kinswoman,
Proverbs 7:5	That they may keepe thee from the strange woman, euen from the stranger that is smoothe in her wordes.
Proverbs 7:6	As I was in the window of mine house, I looked through my windowe,
Proverbs 7:7	And I sawe among the fooles, and considered among the children a yong man destitute of vnderstanding,
Proverbs 7:8	Who passed through the streete by her corner, and went toward her house,
Proverbs 7:9	In the twilight in the euening, when the night began to be blacke and darke.
Proverbs 7:10	And beholde, there met him a woman with an harlots behauiour, and subtill in heart.
Proverbs 7:11	(She is babling and loud: whose feete can not abide in her house.
Proverbs 7:12	Nowe she is without, nowe in the streetes, and lyeth in waite at euery corner)
Proverbs 7:13	So she caught him and kissed him and with an impudent face said vnto him,
Proverbs 7:14	I haue peace offerings: this day haue I payed my vowes.
Proverbs 7:15	Therefore came I forth to meete thee, that I might seeke thy face: and I haue found thee.
Proverbs 7:16	I haue deckt my bed with ornaments, carpets and laces of Egypt.
Proverbs 7:17	I haue perfumed my bedde with myrrhe, aloes, and cynamom.
Proverbs 7:18	Come, let vs take our fill of loue vntill the morning: let vs take our pleasure in daliance.
Proverbs 7:19	For mine husband is not at home: he is gone a iourney farre off.
Proverbs 7:20	He hath taken with him a bagge of siluer, and will come home at the day appointed.
Proverbs 7:21	Thus with her great craft she caused him to yeelde, and with her flattering lips she entised him.
Proverbs 7:22	And he followed her straight wayes, as an oxe that goeth to the slaughter, and as a foole to the stockes for correction,
Proverbs 7:23	Till a dart strike through his liuer, as a bird hasteth to the snare, not knowing that he is in danger.
Proverbs 7:24	Heare me now therefore, O children, and hearken to the wordes of my mouth.
Proverbs 7:25	Let not thine heart decline to her wayes: wander thou not in her paths.
Proverbs 7:26	For shee hath caused many to fall downe wounded, and the strong men are all slaine by her.
Proverbs 7:27	Her house is the way vnto ye graue, which goeth downe to the chambers of death.
Proverbs 8:1	Doth not wisedome crie? and vnderstanding vtter her voyce?
Proverbs 8:2	She standeth in the top of the high places by the way in the place of the paths.
Proverbs 8:3	She cryeth besides the gates before the citie at the entrie of the doores,
Proverbs 8:4	O men, I call vnto you, and vtter my voyce to the children of men.
Proverbs 8:5	O ye foolish men, vnderstand wisedome, and ye, O fooles, be wise in heart.
Proverbs 8:6	Giue eare, for I will speake of excellent things, and the opening of my lippes, shall teache things that be right.
Proverbs 8:7	For my mouth shall speake the trueth, and my lippes abhorre wickednesse.
Proverbs 8:8	All the wordes of my mouth are righteous: there is no lewdenes, nor frowardnesse in them.
Proverbs 8:9	They are all plaine to him that will vnderstande, and streight to them that woulde finde knowledge.
Proverbs 8:10	Receiue mine instruction, and not siluer, and knowledge rather then fine golde.
Proverbs 8:11	For wisdome is better then precious stones: and all pleasures are not to be compared vnto her.
Proverbs 8:12	I wisdome dwell with prudence, and I find foorth knowledge and counsels.
Proverbs 8:13	The feare of the Lord is to hate euill as pride, and arrogancie, and the euill way: and a mouth that speaketh lewde things, I doe hate.
Proverbs 8:14	I haue counsell and wisedome: I am vnderstanding, and I haue strength.
Proverbs 8:15	By me, Kings reigne, and princes decree iustice.
Proverbs 8:16	By me princes rule and the nobles, and all the iudges of the earth.
Proverbs 8:17	I loue them that loue me: and they that seeke me earely, shall finde me.
Proverbs 8:18	Riches and honour are with me: euen durable riches and righteousnesse.
Proverbs 8:19	My fruite is better then golde, euen then fine golde, and my reuenues better then fine siluer.
Proverbs 8:20	I cause to walke in the way of righteousnes, and in the middes of the paths of iudgement,
Proverbs 8:21	That I may cause them that loue me, to inherite substance, and I will fill their treasures.
Proverbs 8:22	The Lord hath possessed me in the beginning of his way: I was before his workes of olde.
Proverbs 8:23	I was set vp from euerlasting, from the beginning and before the earth.
Proverbs 8:24	When there were no depths, was I begotten, when there were no fountaines abounding with water.
Proverbs 8:25	Before the mountaines were setled: and before the hilles, was I begotten.
Proverbs 8:26	He had not yet made the earth, nor the open places, nor the height of the dust in the worlde.
Proverbs 8:27	When hee prepared the heauens, I was there, when he set the compasse vpon the deepe.
Proverbs 8:28	When he established the cloudes aboue, when he confirmed the fountaines of the deepe,
Proverbs 8:29	When he gaue his decree to the Sea, that the waters shoulde not passe his commandement: when he appointed the foundations of the earth,
Proverbs 8:30	Then was I with him as a nourisher, and I was dayly his delight reioycing alway before him,
Proverbs 8:31	And tooke my solace in the compasse of his earth: and my delite is with the children of men.
Proverbs 8:32	Therefore nowe hearken, O children, vnto me: for blessed are they that keepe my wayes.
Proverbs 8:33	Heare instruction, and be ye wise, and refuse it not: blessed is the man that heareth mee, watching dayly at my gates, and giuing attendance at the postes of my doores.
Proverbs 8:34	For he that findeth me, findeth life, and shall obteine fauour of the Lord.
Proverbs 8:35	But he that sinneth against me, hurteth his owne soule: and all that hate me, loue death.
Proverbs 9:1	Wisedome hath built her house, and hewen out her seuen pillars.
Proverbs 9:2	She hath killed her vitailes, drawen her wine, and prepared her table.
Proverbs 9:3	She hath sent forth her maydens and cryeth vpon the highest places of the citie, saying,
Proverbs 9:4	Who so is simple, let him come hither, and to him that is destitute of wisedome, she sayth,
Proverbs 9:5	Come, and eate of my meate, and drinke of the wine that I haue drawen.
Proverbs 9:6	Forsake your way, ye foolish, and ye shall liue: and walke in the way of vnderstanding.
Proverbs 9:7	He that reproueth a scorner, purchaseth to himselfe shame: and he that rebuketh the wicked, getteth himselfe a blot.
Proverbs 9:8	Rebuke not a scorner, least he hate thee: but rebuke a wise man, and he will loue thee.
Proverbs 9:9	Giue admonition to the wise, and he will be the wiser: teache a righteous man, and he will increase in learning.
Proverbs 9:10	The beginning of wisedome is the feare of the Lord, and the knowledge of holy things, is vnderstanding.
Proverbs 9:11	For thy dayes shalbe multiplied by me, and the yeeres of thy life shalbe augmented.
Proverbs 9:12	If thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thy selfe, and if thou be a scorner, thou alone shalt suffer.
Proverbs 9:13	A foolish woman is troublesome: she is ignorant, and knoweth nothing.
Proverbs 9:14	But she sitteth at the doore of her house on a seate in the hie places of the citie,
Proverbs 9:15	To call them that passe by the way, that go right on their way, saying,
Proverbs 9:16	Who so is simple, let him come hither, and to him that is destitute of wisedome, shee sayth also,
Proverbs 9:17	Stollen waters are sweete, and hid bread is pleasant.
Proverbs 9:18	But he knoweth not, that ye dead are there, and that her ghestes are in the depth of hell.
Proverbs 10:1	THE PARABLE OF SALOMON. A wise sonne maketh a glad father: but a foolish sonne is an heauines to his mother.
Proverbs 10:2	The treasures of wickednesse profite nothing: but righteousnesse deliuereth from death.
Proverbs 10:3	The Lord will not famish the soule of the righteous: but he casteth away the substance of the wicked.
Proverbs 10:4	A slouthfull hand maketh poore: but the hand of the diligent maketh riche.
Proverbs 10:5	He that gathereth in sommer, is the sonne of wisdome: but he that sleepeth in haruest, is the sonne of confusion.
Proverbs 10:6	Blessings are vpon the head of the righteous: but iniquitie shall couer the mouth of the wicked.
Proverbs 10:7	The memoriall of the iust shalbe blessed: but the name of the wicked shall rotte.
Proverbs 10:8	The wise in heart will receiue commandements: but the foolish in talke shalbe beaten.
Proverbs 10:9	He that walketh vprightly, walketh boldely: but he that peruerteth his wayes, shalbe knowen.
Proverbs 10:10	He that winketh with the eye, worketh sorowe, and he yet is foolish in talke, shalbe beaten.
Proverbs 10:11	The mouth of a righteous man is a welspring of life: but iniquitie couereth the mouth of the wicked.
Proverbs 10:12	Hatred stirreth vp contentions: but loue couereth all trespasses.
Proverbs 10:13	In the lippes of him that hath vnderstanding wisdome is founde, and a rod shalbe for the backe of him that is destitute of wisedome.
Proverbs 10:14	Wise men lay vp knowledge: but ye mouth of the foole is a present destruction.
Proverbs 10:15	The riche mans goodes are his strong citie: but the feare of the needie is their pouertie.
Proverbs 10:16	The labour of the righteous tendeth to life: but the reuenues of the wicked to sinne.
Proverbs 10:17	He that regardeth instruction, is in the way of life: but he that refuseth correction, goeth out of the way.
Proverbs 10:18	He that dissembleth hatred with lying lips, and he that inuenteth slaunder, is a foole.
Proverbs 10:19	In many wordes there cannot want iniquitie: but he that refrayneth his lippes, is wise.
Proverbs 10:20	The tongue of the iust man is as fined siluer: but the heart of the wicked is litle worth.
Proverbs 10:21	The lippes of the righteous doe feede many: but fooles shall die for want of wisedome.
Proverbs 10:22	The blessing of the Lord, it maketh riche, and he doeth adde no sorowes with it.
Proverbs 10:23	It is as a pastime to a foole to doe wickedly: but wisedome is vnderstanding to a man.
Proverbs 10:24	That which the wicked feareth, shall come vpon him: but God wil graunt the desire of the righteous.
Proverbs 10:25	As the whirlewinde passeth, so is the wicked no more: but the righteous is as an euerlasting foundation.
Proverbs 10:26	As vineger is to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the slouthful to them that send him.
Proverbs 10:27	The feare of the Lord increaseth the dayes: but the yeeres of the wicked shalbe diminished.
Proverbs 10:28	The patient abiding of the righteous shall be gladnesse: but the hope of the wicked shall perish.
Proverbs 10:29	The way of the Lord is strength to the vpright man: but feare shall be for the workers of iniquitie.
Proverbs 10:30	The righteous shall neuer be remooued: but the wicked shall not dwell in the land.
Proverbs 10:31	The mouth of the iust shall be fruitfull in wisdome: but the tongue of the froward shall be cut out.
Proverbs 10:32	The lips of the righteous knowe what is acceptable: but the mouth of the wicked speaketh froward things.
Proverbs 11:1	False balances are an abomination vnto the Lord: but a perfite weight pleaseth him.
Proverbs 11:2	When pride commeth, then commeth shame: but with the lowly is wisdome.
Proverbs 11:3	The vprightnes of the iust shall guide them: but the frowardnes of the transgressers shall destroy them.
Proverbs 11:4	Riches auaile not in the day of wrath: but righteousnes deliuereth from death.
Proverbs 11:5	The righteousnes of the vpright shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall in his owne wickednes.
Proverbs 11:6	The righteousnesse of the iust shall deliuer them: but the transgressers shall be taken in their owne wickednes.
Proverbs 11:7	When a wicked man dieth, his hope perisheth, and the hope of the vniust shall perish.
Proverbs 11:8	The righteous escapeth out of trouble, and the wicked shall come in his steade.
Proverbs 11:9	An hypocrite with his mouth hurteth his neighbour: but the righteous shall be deliuered by knowledge.
Proverbs 11:10	In the prosperitie of the righteous the citie reioyceth, and when the wicked perish, there is ioye.
Proverbs 11:11	By the blessing of the righteous, the citie is exalted: but it is subuerted by the mouth of the wicked.
Proverbs 11:12	He that despiseth his neighbour, is destitute of wisedome: but a man of vnderstanding will keepe silence.
Proverbs 11:13	Hee that goeth about as a slanderer, discouereth a secret: but hee that is of a faithfull heart concealeth a matter.
Proverbs 11:14	Where no counsell is, the people fall: but where many counsellers are, there is health.
Proverbs 11:15	Hee shall be sore vexed, that is suretie for a stranger, and he that hateth suretiship, is sure.
Proverbs 11:16	A gracious woman atteineth honour, and the strong men atteine riches.
Proverbs 11:17	Hee that is mercifull, rewardeth his owne soule: but he that troubleth his own flesh, is cruel.
Proverbs 11:18	The wicked worketh a deceitful worke: but hee that soweth righteousnes, shall receiue a sure rewarde.
Proverbs 11:19	As righteousnes leadeth to life: so hee that followeth euill, seeketh his owne death.
Proverbs 11:20	They that are of a froward heart, are abomination to the Lord: but they that are vpright in their way, are his delite.
Proverbs 11:21	Though hande ioyne in hande, the wicked shall not be vnpunished: but the seede of the righteous shall escape.
Proverbs 11:22	As a iewell of golde in a swines snoute: so is a faire woman, which lacketh discretion.
Proverbs 11:23	The desire of the righteous is onely good: but the hope of the wicked is indignation.
Proverbs 11:24	There is that scattereth, and is more increased: but hee that spareth more then is right, surely commeth to pouertie.
Proverbs 11:25	The liberall person shall haue plentie: and he that watereth, shall also haue raine.
Proverbs 11:26	He that withdraweth the corne, the people will curse him: but blessing shalbe vpon the head of him that selleth corne.
Proverbs 11:27	He that seeketh good things, getteth fauour: but he that seeketh euill, it shall come to him.
Proverbs 11:28	He that trusteth in his riches, shall fall: but the righteous shall florish as a leafe.
Proverbs 11:29	He that troubleth his owne house, shall inherite the winde, and the foole shalbe seruant to the wise in heart.
Proverbs 11:30	The fruite of the righteous is as a tree of life, and he that winneth soules, is wise.
Proverbs 11:31	Beholde, the righteous shalbe recompensed in the earth: howe much more the wicked and the sinner?
Proverbs 12:1	He that loueth instruction, loueth knowledge: but he that hateth correction, is a foole.
Proverbs 12:2	A good man getteth fauour of the Lord: but the man of wicked immaginations will hee condemne.
Proverbs 12:3	A man cannot be established by wickednesse: but the roote of the righteous shall not be mooued.
Proverbs 12:4	A vertuous woman is the crowne of her husband: but she that maketh him ashamed, is as corruption in his bones.
Proverbs 12:5	The thoughtes of the iust are right: but the counsels of the wicked are deceitfull.
Proverbs 12:6	The talking of the wicked is to lye in waite for blood: but the mouth of the righteous will deliuer them.
Proverbs 12:7	God ouerthroweth the wicked, and they are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand.
Proverbs 12:8	A man shall be commended for his wisedome: but the froward of heart shalbe despised.
Proverbs 12:9	He that is despised, and is his owne seruant, is better then he that boasteth himselfe and lacketh bread.
Proverbs 12:10	A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the mercies of the wicked are cruell.
Proverbs 12:11	He that tilleth his lande, shalbe satisfied with bread: but he that followeth the idle, is destitute of vnderstanding.
Proverbs 12:12	The wicked desireth the net of euils: but the roote of the righteous giueth fruite.
Proverbs 12:13	The euill man is snared by the wickednesse of his lips, but the iust shall come out of aduersitie.
Proverbs 12:14	A man shalbe satiate with good things by the fruite of his mouth, and the recompence of a mans hands shall God giue vnto him.
Proverbs 12:15	The way of a foole is right in his owne eyes: but he that heareth counsell, is wise.
Proverbs 12:16	A foole in a day shall be knowen by his anger: but he that couereth shame, is wise.
Proverbs 12:17	He that speaketh trueth, will shewe righteousnes: but a false witnes vseth deceite.
Proverbs 12:18	There is that speaketh wordes like the prickings of a sworde: but the tongue of wise men is health.
Proverbs 12:19	The lip of trueth shall be stable for euer: but a lying tongue varieth incontinently.
Proverbs 12:20	Deceite is in the heart of them that imagine euill: but to the counsellers of peace shall be ioye.
Proverbs 12:21	There shall none iniquitie come to the iust: but the wicked are full of euill.
Proverbs 12:22	The lying lips are an abomination to the Lord: but they that deale truely are his delite.
Proverbs 12:23	A wise man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of the fooles publisheth foolishnes.
Proverbs 12:24	The hand of the diligent shall beare rule: but the idle shalbe vnder tribute.
Proverbs 12:25	Heauines in the heart of man doeth bring it downe: but a good worde reioyceth it.
Proverbs 12:26	The righteous is more excellent then his neighbour: but the way of the wicked will deceiue them.
Proverbs 12:27	The deceitfull man rosteth not, that hee tooke in hunting: but the riches of the diligent man are precious.
Proverbs 12:28	Life is in the way of righteousnesse, and in that path way there is no death.
Proverbs 13:1	A wise sonne will obey the instruction of his father: but a scorner will heare no rebuke.
Proverbs 13:2	A man shall eate good things by the fruite of his mouth: but the soule of the trespassers shall suffer violence.
Proverbs 13:3	Hee that keepeth his mouth, keepeth his life: but he that openeth his lips, destruction shall be to him.
Proverbs 13:4	The sluggard lusteth, but his soule hath nought: but the soule of the diligent shall haue plentie.
Proverbs 13:5	A righteous man hateth lying wordes: but the wicked causeth slander and shame.
Proverbs 13:6	Righteousnesse preserueth the vpright of life: but wickednes ouerthroweth the sinner.
Proverbs 13:7	There is that maketh himselfe riche, and hath nothing, and that maketh himselfe poore, hauing great riches.
Proverbs 13:8	A man will giue his riches for the ransome of his life: but the poore cannot heare ye reproch.
Proverbs 13:9	The light of the righteous reioyceth: but the candle of the wicked shall be put out.
Proverbs 13:10	Onely by pride doeth man make contention: but with the well aduised is wisdome.
Proverbs 13:11	The riches of vanitie shall diminish: but he that gathereth with the hand, shall increase them.
Proverbs 13:12	The hope that is deferred, is the fainting of the heart: but when the desire commeth, it is as a tree of life.
Proverbs 13:13	He that despiseth the worde, hee shall be destroyed: but hee that feareth the commandement he shalbe rewarded.
Proverbs 13:14	The instruction of a wise man is as the welspring of life, to turne away from the snares of death.
Proverbs 13:15	Good vnderstanding maketh acceptable: but the way of the disobedient is hated.
Proverbs 13:16	Euery wise man will worke by knowledge: but a foole will spread abroade folly.
Proverbs 13:17	A wicked messenger falleth into euill: but a faithfull ambassadour is preseruation.
Proverbs 13:18	Pouertie and shame is to him that refuseth instruction: but hee that regardeth correction, shalbe honoured.
Proverbs 13:19	A desire accomplished deliteth ye soule: but it is an abomination to fooles to depart from euil.
Proverbs 13:20	He that walketh with the wise, shalbe wise: but a companion of fooles shalbe afflicted.
Proverbs 13:21	Affliction followeth sinners: but vnto the righteous God will recompense good.
Proverbs 13:22	The good man shall giue inheritance vnto his childrens children: and the riches of the sinner is layde vp for the iust.
Proverbs 13:23	Much foode is in the fielde of the poore: but the fielde is destroyed without discretion.
Proverbs 13:24	He that spareth his rodde, hateth his sonne: but he that loueth him, chasteneth him betime.
Proverbs 13:25	The righteous eateth to the contentation of his minde: but the belly of the wicked shall want.
Proverbs 14:1	A wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish destroyeth it with her owne handes.
Proverbs 14:2	He that walketh in his righteousnes, feareth the Lord: but he that is lewde in his wayes, despiseth him.
Proverbs 14:3	In the mouth of the foolish is the rod of pride: but the lippes of the wise preserue them.
Proverbs 14:4	Where none oxen are, there the cribbe is emptie: but much increase cometh by the strength of the oxe.
Proverbs 14:5	A faithfull witnes will not lye: but a false record will speake lyes.
Proverbs 14:6	A scorner seeketh wisdome, and findeth it not: but knowledge is easie to him that will vnderstande.
Proverbs 14:7	Depart from the foolish man, when thou perceiuest not in him the lippes of knowledge.
Proverbs 14:8	The wisdome of ye prudent is to vnderstand his way: but the foolishnes of the fooles is deceite.
Proverbs 14:9	The foole maketh a mocke of sinne: but among the righteous there is fauour.
Proverbs 14:10	The heart knoweth the bitternes of his soule, and the stranger shall not medle with his ioy.
Proverbs 14:11	The house of the wicked shalbe destroyed: but the tabernacle of the righteous shall florish.
Proverbs 14:12	There is a way that seemeth right to a man: but the issues thereof are the wayes of death.
Proverbs 14:13	Euen in laughing the heart is sorowful, and the ende of that mirth is heauinesse.
Proverbs 14:14	The heart that declineth, shall be saciate with his owne wayes: but a good man shall depart from him.
Proverbs 14:15	The foolish will beleeue euery thing: but the prudent will consider his steppes.
Proverbs 14:16	A wise man feareth, and departeth from euill: but a foole rageth, and is carelesse.
Proverbs 14:17	He that is hastie to anger, committeth follie, and a busie body is hated.
Proverbs 14:18	The foolish do inherite follie: but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
Proverbs 14:19	The euill shall bowe before the good, and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
Proverbs 14:20	The poore is hated euen of his own neighbour: but the friendes of the rich are many.
Proverbs 14:21	The sinner despiseth his neighbour: but he that hath mercie on the poore, is blessed.
Proverbs 14:22	Doe not they erre that imagine euill? but to them that thinke on good things, shalbe mercie and trueth.
Proverbs 14:23	In all labour there is abundance: but the talke of the lippes bringeth onely want.
Proverbs 14:24	The crowne of the wise is their riches, and the follie of fooles is foolishnes.
Proverbs 14:25	A faithfull witnes deliuereth soules: but a deceiuer speaketh lyes.
Proverbs 14:26	In the feare of the Lord is an assured strength, and his children shall haue hope.
Proverbs 14:27	The feare of the Lord is as a welspring of life, to auoyde the snares of death.
Proverbs 14:28	In the multitude of the people is the honour of a King, and for the want of people commeth the destruction of the Prince.
Proverbs 14:29	He that is slowe to wrath, is of great wisdome: but he that is of an hastie minde, exalteth follie.
Proverbs 14:30	A sounde heart is the life of the flesh: but enuie is the rotting of the bones.
Proverbs 14:31	He that oppresseth the poore, reprooueth him that made him: but hee honoureth him, that hath mercie on the poore.
Proverbs 14:32	The wicked shall be cast away for his malice: but the righteous hath hope in his death.
Proverbs 14:33	Wisedome resteth in the heart of him that hath vnderstanding, and is knowen in the mids of fooles.
Proverbs 14:34	Iustice exalteth a nation, but sinne is a shame to the people.
Proverbs 14:35	The pleasure of a King is in a wise seruant: but his wrath shalbe toward him that is lewde.
Proverbs 15:1	A soft answere putteth away wrath: but grieuous wordes stirre vp anger.
Proverbs 15:2	The tongue of the wise vseth knowledge aright: but the mouth of fooles babbleth out foolishnesse.
Proverbs 15:3	The eyes of the Lord in euery place beholde the euill and the good.
Proverbs 15:4	A wholesome tongue is as a tree of life: but the frowardnes therof is the breaking of ye minde.
Proverbs 15:5	A foole despiseth his fathers instruction: but he that regardeth correction, is prudent.
Proverbs 15:6	The house of the righteous hath much treasure: but in the reuenues of the wicked is trouble.
Proverbs 15:7	The lippes of the wise doe spread abroade knowledge: but ye heart of the foolish doth not so.
Proverbs 15:8	The sacrifice of the wicked is abomination to the Lord: but the prayer of the righteous is acceptable vnto him.
Proverbs 15:9	The way of the wicked is an abomination vnto the Lord: but he loueth him that followeth righteousnes.
Proverbs 15:10	Instruction is euill to him that forsaketh the way, and he that hateth correction, shall die.
Proverbs 15:11	Hell and destruction are before the Lord: how much more the hearts of the sonnes of men?
Proverbs 15:12	A scorner loueth not him that rebuketh him, neither will he goe vnto the wise.
Proverbs 15:13	A ioyfull heart maketh a chearefull countenance: but by the sorow of the heart the minde is heauie.
Proverbs 15:14	The heart of him that hath vnderstanding, seeketh knowledge: but the mouth of the foole is fedde with foolishnes.
Proverbs 15:15	All the dayes of the afflicted are euill: but a good conscience is a continuall feast.
Proverbs 15:16	Better is a litle with the feare of the Lord, then great treasure, and trouble therewith.
Proverbs 15:17	Better is a dinner of greene herbes where loue is, then a stalled oxe and hatred therewith.
Proverbs 15:18	An angrie man stirreth vp strife: but hee that is slowe to wrath, appeaseth strife.
Proverbs 15:19	The way of a slouthfull man is as an hedge of thornes: but the way of the righteous is plaine.
Proverbs 15:20	A wise sonne reioyceth the father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother.
Proverbs 15:21	Foolishnes is ioy to him that is destitute of vnderstanding: but a man of vnderstanding walketh vprightly.
Proverbs 15:22	Without cousel thoughts come to nought: but in the multitude of counsellers there is stedfastnesse.
Proverbs 15:23	A ioy commeth to a man by the answere of his mouth: and how good is a word in due season?
Proverbs 15:24	The way of life is on high to the prudent, to auoyde from hell beneath.
Proverbs 15:25	The Lord will destroye the house of the proude men: but hee will stablish the borders of the widowe.
Proverbs 15:26	The thoughts of ye wicked are abomination to the Lord: but the pure haue pleasant wordes.
Proverbs 15:27	He that is greedie of gaine, troubleth his owne house: but he that hateth giftes, shall liue.
Proverbs 15:28	The heart of the righteous studieth to answere: but the wicked mans mouth babbleth euil thinges.
Proverbs 15:29	The Lord is farre off from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of the righteous.
Proverbs 15:30	The light of the eyes reioyceth the heart, and a good name maketh the bones fat.
Proverbs 15:31	The eare that hearkeneth to the correction of life, shall lodge among the wise.
Proverbs 15:32	Hee that refuseth instruction, despiseth his owne soule: but he that obeyeth correction, getteth vnderstanding.
Proverbs 15:33	The feare of the Lord is the instruction of wisdome: and before honour, goeth humilitie.
Proverbs 16:1	The preparations of the heart are in man: but the answere of the tongue is of the Lord.
Proverbs 16:2	All the wayes of a man are cleane in his owne eyes: but the Lord pondereth the spirits.
Proverbs 16:3	Commit thy workes vnto the Lord, and thy thoughts shalbe directed.
Proverbs 16:4	The Lord hath made all things for his owne sake: yea, euen the wicked for the day of euill.
Proverbs 16:5	All that are proude in heart, are an abomination to the Lord: though hand ioyne in hand, he shall not be vnpunished.
Proverbs 16:6	By mercy and trueth iniquitie shalbe forgiuen, and by the feare of the Lord they depart from euill.
Proverbs 16:7	When the wayes of a man please the Lord, he will make also his enemies at peace with him.
Proverbs 16:8	Better is a litle with righteousnesse, then great reuenues without equitie.
Proverbs 16:9	The heart of man purposeth his way: but the Lord doeth direct his steppes.
Proverbs 16:10	A diuine sentence shalbe in the lips of the King: his mouth shall not transgresse in iudgement.
Proverbs 16:11	A true weight and balance are of the Lord: all the weightes of the bagge are his worke.
Proverbs 16:12	It is an abomination to Kings to commit wickednes: for the throne is stablished by iustice.
Proverbs 16:13	Righteous lips are the delite of Kings, and the King loueth him that speaketh right things.
Proverbs 16:14	The wrath of a King is as messengers of death: but a wise man will pacifie it.
Proverbs 16:15	In the light of the Kings coutenance is life: and his fauour is as a cloude of the latter raine.
Proverbs 16:16	Howe much better is it to get wisedome then golde? and to get vnderstanding, is more to be desired then siluer.
Proverbs 16:17	The pathe of the righteous is to decline from euil, and hee keepeth his soule, that keepeth his way.
Proverbs 16:18	Pride goeth before destruction, and an high minde before the fall.
Proverbs 16:19	Better it is to be of humble minde with the lowly, then to deuide the spoyles with the proude.
Proverbs 16:20	He that is wise in his busines, shall finde good: and he that trusteth in the Lord, he is blessed.
Proverbs 16:21	The wise in heart shall bee called prudent: and the sweetenesse of the lippes shall increase doctrine.
Proverbs 16:22	Vnderstading is welspring of life vnto them that haue it: and the instruction of fooles is folly.
Proverbs 16:23	The heart of the wise guideth his mouth wisely, and addeth doctrine to his lippes.
Proverbs 16:24	Faire wordes are as an hony combe, sweetenesse to the soule, and health to the bones.
Proverbs 16:25	There is a way that seemeth right vnto man: but the issue thereof are the wayes of death.
Proverbs 16:26	The person that traueileth, traueileth for himselfe: for his mouth craueth it of him.
Proverbs 16:27	A wicked man diggeth vp euill, and in his lippes is like burning fire.
Proverbs 16:28	A frowarde person soweth strife: and a tale teller maketh diuision among princes.
Proverbs 16:29	A wicked man deceiueth his neighbour, and leadeth him into the way that is not good.
Proverbs 16:30	He shutteth his eyes to deuise wickednes: he moueth his lippes, and bringeth euil to passe.
Proverbs 16:31	Age is a crowne of glory, when it is founde in the way of righteousnes.
Proverbs 16:32	He that is slowe vnto anger, is better then the mightie man: and hee that ruleth his owne minde, is better then he that winneth a citie.
Proverbs 16:33	The lot is cast into the lap: but the whole disposition thereof is of the Lord.
Proverbs 17:1	Better is a dry morsell, if peace be with it, then an house full of sacrifices with strife.
Proverbs 17:2	A discrete seruant shall haue rule ouer a lewde sonne, and hee shall deuide the heritage among the brethren.
Proverbs 17:3	As is the fining pot for siluer, and the fornace for golde, so the Lord trieth the heartes.
Proverbs 17:4	The wicked giueth heed to false lippes, and a lyer hearkeneth to the naughtie tongue.
Proverbs 17:5	Hee that mocketh the poore, reprocheth him, that made him: and he that reioyceth at destruction, shall not be vnpunished.
Proverbs 17:6	Childres children are the crowne of the elders: and the glory of ye children are their fathers.
Proverbs 17:7	Hie talke becommeth not a foole, much lesse a lying talke a prince.
Proverbs 17:8	A rewarde is as a stone pleasant in the eyes of them that haue it: it prospereth, whithersoeuer it turneth.
Proverbs 17:9	Hee that couereth a transgression, seeketh loue: but hee that repeateth a matter, separateth the prince.
Proverbs 17:10	A reproofe entereth more into him that hath vnderstanding, then an hundreth stripes into a foole.
Proverbs 17:11	A sedicious person seeketh onely euill, and a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.
Proverbs 17:12	It is better for a man to meete a beare robbed of her whelpes, then a foole in his follie.
Proverbs 17:13	He that rewardeth euil for good, euil shall not depart from his house.
Proverbs 17:14	The beginning of strife is as one that openeth the waters: therefore or the contention be medled with, leaue off.
Proverbs 17:15	He that iustifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the iust, euen they both are abomination to the Lord.
Proverbs 17:16	Wherefore is there a price in the hand of the foole to get wisdome, and he hath none heart?
Proverbs 17:17	A friende loueth at all times: and a brother is borne for aduersitie.
Proverbs 17:18	A man destitute of vnderstanding, toucheth the hande, and becommeth suretie for his neighbour.
Proverbs 17:19	He loueth transgression, that loueth strife: and he that exalteth his gate, seeketh destruction.
Proverbs 17:20	The froward heart findeth no good: and he that hath a naughtie tongue, shall fall into euill.
Proverbs 17:21	He that begetteth a foole, getteth himselfe sorow, and the father of a foole can haue no ioy.
Proverbs 17:22	A ioyfull heart causeth good health: but a sorowfull minde dryeth the bones.
Proverbs 17:23	A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosome to wrest the wayes of iudgement.
Proverbs 17:24	Wisdome is in the face of him that hath vnderstanding: but the eyes of a foole are in the corners of the world.
Proverbs 17:25	A foolish sonne is a griefe vnto his father, and a heauines to her that bare him.
Proverbs 17:26	Surely it is not good to condemne the iust, nor that ye princes should smite such for equitie.
Proverbs 17:27	Hee that hath knowledge, spareth his wordes, and a man of vnderstanding is of an excellent spirit.
Proverbs 17:28	Euen a foole (when he holdeth his peace) is counted wise, and hee that stoppeth his lips, prudent.
Proverbs 18:1	For the desire thereof hee will separate himselfe to seeke it, and occupie himselfe in all wisdome.
Proverbs 18:2	A foole hath no delite in vnderstanding: but that his heart may be discouered.
Proverbs 18:3	When the wicked commeth, then commeth contempt, and with the vile man reproch.
Proverbs 18:4	The words of a mans mouth are like deepe waters, and the welspring of wisdome is like a flowing riuer.
Proverbs 18:5	It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to cause ye righteous to fall in iudgement.
Proverbs 18:6	A fooles lips come with strife, and his mouth calleth for stripes.
Proverbs 18:7	A fooles mouth is his owne destruction, and his lips are a snare for his soule.
Proverbs 18:8	The wordes of a tale bearer are as flatterings, and they goe downe into the bowels of the belly.
Proverbs 18:9	He also that is slouthfull in his worke, is euen the brother of him that is a great waster.
Proverbs 18:10	The Name of the Lord is a strong tower: the righteous runneth vnto it, and is exalted.
Proverbs 18:11	The rich mans riches are his strong citie: and as an hie wall in his imagination.
Proverbs 18:12	Before destruction the heart of a man is hautie, and before glory goeth lowlines.
Proverbs 18:13	He that answereth a matter before hee heare it, it is folly and shame vnto him.
Proverbs 18:14	The spirit of a man will susteine his infirmitie: but a wounded spirit who can beare it?
Proverbs 18:15	A wise heart getteth knowledge, and the eare of the wise seeketh learning.
Proverbs 18:16	A mans gift enlargeth him, and leadeth him before great men.
Proverbs 18:17	He that is first in his owne cause, is iust: then commeth his neighbour, and maketh inquirie of him.
Proverbs 18:18	The lot causeth contentions to cease, and maketh a partition among the mightie.
Proverbs 18:19	A brother offended is harder to winne then a strong citie, and their contentions are like the barre of a palace.
Proverbs 18:20	With the fruite of a mans mouth shall his belly be satisfied, and with the increase of his lips shall he be filled.
Proverbs 18:21	Death and life are in the power of ye tongue, and they that loue it, shall eate the fruite thereof.
Proverbs 18:22	He that findeth a wife, findeth a good thing, and receiueth fauour of the Lord.
Proverbs 18:23	The poore speaketh with prayers: but the rich answereth roughly.
Proverbs 18:24	A man that hath friends, ought to shew him selfe friendly: for a friend is neerer then a brother.
Proverbs 19:1	Better is the poore that walketh in his vprightnes, then he that abuseth his lips, and is a foole.
Proverbs 19:2	For without knowledge the minde is not good, and he that hasteth with his feete, sinneth.
Proverbs 19:3	The foolishnesse of a man peruerteth his way, and his heart freateth against the Lord.
Proverbs 19:4	Riches gather many friends: but the poore is separated from his neighbour.
Proverbs 19:5	A false witnes shall not be vnpunished: and he that speaketh lyes, shall not escape.
Proverbs 19:6	Many reuerence the face of the prince, and euery man is friend to him that giueth giftes.
Proverbs 19:7	All the brethren of the poore doe hate him: howe much more will his friends depart farre from him? though hee be instant with wordes, yet they will not.
Proverbs 19:8	He that possesseth vnderstanding, loueth his owne soule, and keepeth wisdome to finde goodnesse.
Proverbs 19:9	A false witnes shall not be vnpunished: and he that speaketh lyes, shall perish.
Proverbs 19:10	Pleasure is not comely for a foole, much lesse for a seruant to haue rule ouer princes.
Proverbs 19:11	The discretion of man deferreth his anger: and his glory is to passe by an offence.
Proverbs 19:12	The Kings wrath is like the roaring of a lyon: but his fauour is like the dewe vpon ye grasse.
Proverbs 19:13	A foolish sonne is the calamitie of his father, and the contentions of a wife are like a continuall dropping.
Proverbs 19:14	House and riches are the inheritance of the fathers: but a prudent wife commeth of the Lord.
Proverbs 19:15	Slouthfulnes causeth to fall asleepe, and a deceitfull person shall be affamished.
Proverbs 19:16	He that keepeth the commandement, keepeth his owne soule: but hee that despiseth his wayes, shall dye.
Proverbs 19:17	He that hath mercy vpon the poore, lendeth vnto the Lord: and the Lord will recompense him that which he hath giuen.
Proverbs 19:18	Chasten thy sonne while there is hope, and let not thy soule spare for his murmuring.
Proverbs 19:19	A man of much anger shall suffer punishment: and though thou deliuer him, yet wil his anger come againe.
Proverbs 19:20	Heare counsell and receiue instruction, that thou mayest be wise in thy latter ende.
Proverbs 19:21	Many deuises are in a mans heart: but the counsell of the Lord shall stand.
Proverbs 19:22	That that is to be desired of a man, is his goodnes, and a poore man is better then a lyer.
Proverbs 19:23	The feare of the Lord leadeth to life: and he that is filled therewith, shall continue, and shall not be visited with euill.
Proverbs 19:24	The slouthfull hideth his hand in his bosome, and wil not put it to his mouth againe.
Proverbs 19:25	Smite a scorner, and the foolish wil beware: and reproue the prudent, and he wil vnderstand knowledge.
Proverbs 19:26	He that destroyeth his father, or chaseth away his mother, is a lewde and shamefull childe.
Proverbs 19:27	My sonne, heare no more the instruction, that causeth to erre from ye words of knowledge.
Proverbs 19:28	A wicked witnes mocketh at iudgement, and the mouth of ye wicked swalloweth vp iniquitie.
Proverbs 19:29	But iudgements are prepared for the scorners, and stripes for the backe of the fooles.
Proverbs 20:1	Wine is a mocker and strong drinke is raging: and whosoeuer is deceiued thereby, is not wise.
Proverbs 20:2	The feare of the King is like the roaring of a lyon: hee that prouoketh him vnto anger, sinneth against his owne soule.
Proverbs 20:3	It is a mans honour to cease from strife: but euery foole will be medling.
Proverbs 20:4	The slouthfull will not plowe, because of winter: therefore shall he beg in sommer, but haue nothing.
Proverbs 20:5	The counsell in the heart of man is like deepe waters: but a man that hath vnderstanding, will drawe it out.
Proverbs 20:6	Many men wil boast, euery one of his owne goodnes: but who can finde a faithfull man?
Proverbs 20:7	He that walketh in his integritie, is iust: and blessed shall his children be after him.
Proverbs 20:8	A King that sitteth in the throne of iudgement, chaseth away all euill with his eyes.
Proverbs 20:9	Who can say, I haue made mine heart cleane, I am cleane from my sinne?
Proverbs 20:10	Diuers weightes, and diuers measures, both these are euen abomination vnto the Lord.
Proverbs 20:11	A childe also is knowen by his doings, whether his worke be pure and right.
Proverbs 20:12	The Lord hath made both these, euen the eare to heare, and the eye to see.
Proverbs 20:13	Loue not sleepe least thou come vnto pouertie: open thine eyes, and thou shalt be satisfied with bread.
Proverbs 20:14	It is naught, it is naught, sayth the buyer: but when he is gone apart, he boasteth.
Proverbs 20:15	There is golde, and a multitude of precious stones: but the lips of knowledge are a precious iewel.
Proverbs 20:16	Take his garment, that is suretie for a stranger, and a pledge of him for the stranger.
Proverbs 20:17	The bread of deceit is sweete to a man: but afterward his mouth shalbe filled with grauel.
Proverbs 20:18	Establish the thoughtes by counsell: and by counsell make warre.
Proverbs 20:19	He that goeth about as a slanderer, discouereth secrets: therefore meddle not with him that flattereth with his lips.
Proverbs 20:20	He that curseth his father or his mother, his light shalbe put out in obscure darkenes.
Proverbs 20:21	An heritage is hastely gotten at the beginning, but the end thereof shall not be blessed.
Proverbs 20:22	Say not thou, I wil recompense euill: but waite vpon the Lord, and he shall saue thee.
Proverbs 20:23	Diuers weightes are an abomination vnto the Lord, and deceitful balances are not good.
Proverbs 20:24	The steps of man are ruled by the Lord: how can a man then vnderstand his owne way?
Proverbs 20:25	It is a destruction for a man to deuoure that which is sanctified, and after the vowes to inquire.
Proverbs 20:26	A wise King scattereth the wicked, and causeth the wheele to turne ouer them.
Proverbs 20:27	The light of the Lord is the breath of man, and searcheth all the bowels of the belly.
Proverbs 20:28	Mercie and trueth preserue the King: for his throne shall be established with mercie.
Proverbs 20:29	The beautie of yong men is their strength, and the glory of the aged is the gray head.
Proverbs 20:30	The blewnes of the wound serueth to purge the euill, and the stripes within the bowels of the belly.
Proverbs 21:1	The Kings heart is in the hand of the Lord, as the riuers of waters: he turneth it whithersoeuer it pleaseth him.
Proverbs 21:2	Euery way of a man is right in his owne eyes: but the Lord pondereth the hearts.
Proverbs 21:3	To doe iustice and iudgement is more acceptable to the Lord then sacrifice.
Proverbs 21:4	A hautie looke, and a proude heart, which is the light of the wicked, is sinne.
Proverbs 21:5	The thoughtes of the diligent doe surely bring abundance: but whosoeuer is hastie, commeth surely to pouertie.
Proverbs 21:6	The gathering of treasures by a deceitfull tongue is vanitie tossed to and from of them that seeke death.
Proverbs 21:7	The robberie of the wicked shall destroy them: for they haue refused to execute iudgement.
Proverbs 21:8	The way of some is peruerted and strange: but of the pure man, his worke is right.
Proverbs 21:9	It is better to dwell in a corner of the house top, then with a contentious woman in a wide house.
Proverbs 21:10	The soule of the wicked wisheth euill: and his neighbour hath no fauour in his eyes.
Proverbs 21:11	When the scorner is punished, the foolish is wise: and when one instructeth the wise, he wil receiue knowledge.
Proverbs 21:12	The righteous teacheth the house of the wicked: but God ouerthroweth the wicked for their euill.
Proverbs 21:13	He that stoppeth his eare at the crying of the poore, he shall also cry and not be heard.
Proverbs 21:14	A gift in secret pacifieth anger, and a gift in the bosome great wrath.
Proverbs 21:15	It is ioye to the iust to doe iudgement: but destruction shalbe to the workers of iniquitie.
Proverbs 21:16	A man that wandreth out of the way of wisdome, shall remaine in the congregation of the dead.
Proverbs 21:17	Hee that loueth pastime, shalbe a poore man: and he that loueth wine and oyle, shall not be riche.
Proverbs 21:18	The wicked shalbe a ransome for the iust, and the transgressour for the righteous.
Proverbs 21:19	It is better to dwell in the wildernesse, then with a contentious and angry woman.
Proverbs 21:20	In the house of the wise is a pleasant treasure and oyle: but a foolish man deuoureth it.
Proverbs 21:21	He that followeth after righteousnes and mercy, shall finde life, righteousnes, and glory.
Proverbs 21:22	A wise man goeth vp into the citie of the mightie, and casteth downe the strength of the confidence thereof.
Proverbs 21:23	He that keepeth his mouth and his tongue, keepeth his soule from afflictions.
Proverbs 21:24	Proude, hautie and scornefull is his name that worketh in his arrogancie wrath.
Proverbs 21:25	The desire of the slouthfull slayeth him: for his hands refuse to worke.
Proverbs 21:26	He coueteth euermore greedily, but the righteous giueth and spareth not.
Proverbs 21:27	The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination: how much more when he bringeth it with a wicked minde?
Proverbs 21:28	A false witnes shall perish: but hee that heareth, speaketh continually.
Proverbs 21:29	A wicked man hardeneth his face: but the iust, he will direct his way.
Proverbs 21:30	There is no wisedome, neither vnderstanding, nor counsell against the Lord.
Proverbs 21:31	The horse is prepared against the day of battell: but saluation is of the Lord.
Proverbs 22:1	A good name is to be chosen aboue great riches, and louing fauour is aboue siluer and aboue golde.
Proverbs 22:2	The rich and poore meete together: the Lord is the maker of them all.
Proverbs 22:3	A prudent man seeth the plague, and hideth himselfe: but the foolish goe on still, and are punished.
Proverbs 22:4	The rewarde of humilitie, and the feare of God is riches, and glory, and life.
Proverbs 22:5	Thornes and snares are in the way of the frowarde: but he that regardeth his soule, will depart farre from them.
Proverbs 22:6	Teache a childe in the trade of his way, and when he is olde, he shall not depart from it.
Proverbs 22:7	The rich ruleth the poore, and the borower is seruant to the man that lendeth.
Proverbs 22:8	He that soweth iniquitie, shall reape affliction, and the rodde of his anger shall faile.
Proverbs 22:9	He that hath a good eye, he shalbe blessed: for he giueth of his bread vnto the poore.
Proverbs 22:10	Cast out the scorner, and strife shall go out: so contention and reproche shall cease.
Proverbs 22:11	Hee that loueth purenesse of heart for the grace of his lippes, the King shalbe his friend.
Proverbs 22:12	The eyes of the Lord preserue knowledge: but hee ouerthroweth the wordes of the transgressour.
Proverbs 22:13	The slouthfull man saith, A lyon is without, I shall be slaine in the streete.
Proverbs 22:14	The mouth of strage women is as a deepe pit: he with whom the Lord is angry, shall fall therein.
Proverbs 22:15	Foolishnesse is bounde in the heart of a childe: but the rodde of correction shall driue it away from him.
Proverbs 22:16	Hee that oppresseth the poore to increase him selfe, and giueth vnto the riche, shall surely come to pouertie.
Proverbs 22:17	Incline thine eare, and heare the wordes of the wise, and apply thine heart vnto my knowledge.
Proverbs 22:18	For it shalbe pleasant, if thou keepe them in thy bellie, and if they be directed together in thy lippes.
Proverbs 22:19	That thy confidence may be in the Lord, I haue shewed thee this day: thou therefore take heede.
Proverbs 22:20	Haue not I written vnto thee three times in counsels and knowledge,
Proverbs 22:21	That I might shewe thee the assurance of the wordes of trueth to answere the wordes of trueth to them that sende to thee?
Proverbs 22:22	Robbe not the poore, because hee is poore, neither oppresse the afflicted in iudgement.
Proverbs 22:23	For the Lord will defende their cause, and spoyle the soule of those that spoyle them.
Proverbs 22:24	Make no friendship with an angrie man, neither goe with the furious man,
Proverbs 22:25	Least thou learne his wayes, and receiue destruction to thy soule.
Proverbs 22:26	Be not thou of them that touch the hand, nor among them that are suretie for debts.
Proverbs 22:27	If thou hast nothing to paye, why causest thou that he should take thy bed from vnder thee?
Proverbs 22:28	Thou shalt not remooue the ancient bounds which thy fathers haue made.
Proverbs 22:29	Thou seest that a diligent man in his businesse standeth before Kings, and standeth not before the base sort.
Proverbs 23:1	When thou sittest to eate with a ruler, consider diligently what is before thee,
Proverbs 23:2	And put the knife to thy throte, if thou be a man giuen to the appetite.
Proverbs 23:3	Be not desirous of his deintie meates: for it is a deceiuable meate.
Proverbs 23:4	Trauaile not too much to be rich: but cease from thy wisdome.
Proverbs 23:5	Wilt thou cast thine eyes vpon it, which is nothing? for riches taketh her to her wings, as an eagle, and flyeth into the heauen.
Proverbs 23:6	Eate thou not the bread of him that hath an euil eye, neither desire his deintie meates.
Proverbs 23:7	For as though he thought it in his heart, so will hee say vnto thee, Eate and drinke: but his heart is not with thee.
Proverbs 23:8	Thou shalt vomit thy morsels that thou hast eaten, and thou shalt lose thy sweete wordes.
Proverbs 23:9	Speake not in the eares of a foole: for hee will despise the wisdome of thy wordes.
Proverbs 23:10	Remooue not the ancient boundes, and enter not into the fieldes of the fatherlesse.
Proverbs 23:11	For he that redeemeth them, is mightie: he will defend their cause against thee.
Proverbs 23:12	Apply thine heart to instruction, and thine eares to the wordes of knowledge.
Proverbs 23:13	Withhold not correction from the childe: if thou smite him with the rodde, he shall not die.
Proverbs 23:14	Thou shalt smite him with the rodde, and shalt deliuer his soule from hell.
Proverbs 23:15	My sonne, if thine heart be wise, mine heart shall reioyce, and I also.
Proverbs 23:16	And my reynes shall reioyce, when thy lips speake righteous things.
Proverbs 23:17	Let not thine heart bee enuious against sinners: but let it bee in the feare of the Lord continually.
Proverbs 23:18	For surely there is an ende, and thy hope shall not be cut off.
Proverbs 23:19	O thou my sonne, heare, and bee wise, and guide thine heart in the way.
Proverbs 23:20	Keepe not company with drunkards, nor with gluttons.
Proverbs 23:21	For the drunkard and the glutton shall bee poore, and the sleeper shalbe clothed with ragges.
Proverbs 23:22	Obey thy father that hath begotten thee, and despise not thy mother when she is olde.
Proverbs 23:23	Bye the trueth, but sell it not: likewise wisdome, and instruction, and vnderstanding.
Proverbs 23:24	The father of the righteous shall greatly reioyce, and hee that begetteth a wise childe, shall haue ioy of him.
Proverbs 23:25	Thy father and thy mother shall be glad, and she that bare thee shall reioyce.
Proverbs 23:26	My sonne, giue mee thine heart, and let thine eyes delite in my wayes.
Proverbs 23:27	For a whore is as a deepe ditche, and a strange woman is as a narrowe pitte.
Proverbs 23:28	Also she lyeth in wait as for a praye, and she increaseth the transgressers among men.
Proverbs 23:29	To whome is woe? to whome is sorowe? to whom is strife? to whom is murmuring? to whom are woundes without cause? and to whome is the rednesse of the eyes?
Proverbs 23:30	Euen to them that tarie long at the wine, to them that goe, and seeke mixt wine.
Proverbs 23:31	Looke not thou vpon the wine, when it is red, and when it sheweth his colour in the cup, or goeth downe pleasantly.
Proverbs 23:32	In the ende thereof it will bite like a serpent, and hurt like a cockatrise.
Proverbs 23:33	Thine eyes shall looke vpon strange women, and thine heart shall speake lewde things.
Proverbs 23:34	And thou shalt bee as one that sleepeth in the middes of the sea, and as hee that sleepeth in the toppe of the maste.
Proverbs 23:35	They haue stricken mee, shalt thou say, but I was not sicke: they haue beaten mee, but I knew not, when I awoke: therefore will I seeke it yet still.
Proverbs 24:1	Be not thou enuious against euill men, neither desire to be with them.
Proverbs 24:2	For their heart imagineth destruction, and their lippes speake mischiefe.
Proverbs 24:3	Through wisdome is an house builded, and with vnderstanding it is established.
Proverbs 24:4	And by knowledge shall the chambers bee filled with all precious, and pleasant riches.
Proverbs 24:5	A wise man is strong: for a man of vnderstanding encreaseth his strength.
Proverbs 24:6	For with counsel thou shalt enterprise thy warre, and in the multitude of them that can giue counsell, is health.
Proverbs 24:7	Wisdome is hie to a foole: therefore he can not open his mouth in the gate.
Proverbs 24:8	Hee that imagineth to doe euill, men shall call him an autour of wickednes.
Proverbs 24:9	The wicked thought of a foole is sinne, and the scorner is an abomination vnto men.
Proverbs 24:10	If thou bee faint in the day of aduersitie, thy strength is small.
Proverbs 24:11	Deliuer them that are drawen to death: wilt thou not preserue them that are led to be slaine?
Proverbs 24:12	If thou say, Beholde, we knew not of it: he that pondereth the heartes, doeth not hee vnderstand it? and hee that keepeth thy soule, knoweth he it not? will not he also recompense euery man according to his workes?
Proverbs 24:13	My sonne, eate hony, for it is good, and the hony combe, for it is sweete vnto thy mouth.
Proverbs 24:14	So shall the knowledge of wisdome be vnto thy soule, if thou finde it, and there shall be an ende, and thine hope shall not be cut off.
Proverbs 24:15	Laye no waite, O wicked man, against the house of the righteous, and spoyle not his resting place.
Proverbs 24:16	For a iust man falleth seuen times, and riseth againe: but the wicked fall into mischiefe.
Proverbs 24:17	Bee thou not glad when thine enemie falleth, and let not thine heart reioyce when hee stumbleth,
Proverbs 24:18	Least the Lord see it, and it displease him, and he turne his wrath from him.
Proverbs 24:19	Fret not thy selfe because of the malicious, neither be enuious at the wicked.
Proverbs 24:20	For there shall bee none ende of plagues to the euill man: the light of the wicked shall bee put out.
Proverbs 24:21	My sonne feare the Lord, and the King, and meddle not with them that are sedicious.
Proverbs 24:22	For their destruction shall rise suddenly, and who knoweth the ruine of them both?
Proverbs 24:23	ALSO THESE THINGS PERTEINE TO THE WISE, It is not good to haue respect of any person in iudgement.
Proverbs 24:24	He that saith to the wicked, Thou art righteous, him shall the people curse, and the multitude shall abhorre him.
Proverbs 24:25	But to them that rebuke him, shall be pleasure, and vpon them shall come the blessing of goodnesse.
Proverbs 24:26	They shall kisse the lippes of him that answereth vpright wordes.
Proverbs 24:27	Prepare thy worke without, and make readie thy thinges in the fielde, and after, builde thine house.
Proverbs 24:28	Be not a witnes against thy neighbour without cause: for wilt thou deceiue with thy lippes?
Proverbs 24:29	Say not, I wil doe to him, as he hath done to mee, I will recompence euery man according to his worke.
Proverbs 24:30	I passed by the fielde of the slouthfull, and by the vineyarde of the man destitute of vnderstanding.
Proverbs 24:31	And lo, it was al growen ouer with thornes, and nettles had couered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken downe.
Proverbs 24:32	Then I behelde, and I considered it well: I looked vpon it, and receiued instruction.
Proverbs 24:33	Yet a litle sleepe, a litle slumber, a litle folding of the handes to sleepe.
Proverbs 24:34	So thy pouertie commeth as one that traueileth by the way, and thy necessitie like an armed man.
Proverbs 25:1	THESE ARE ALSO PARABLES of Salomon, which the men of Hezekiah King of Iudah copied out.
Proverbs 25:2	The glorie of God is to conceale a thing secret: but the Kings honour is to search out a thing.
Proverbs 25:3	The heaues in height, and the earth in deepenes, and the Kings heart can no man search out.
Proverbs 25:4	Take the drosse from the siluer, and there shall proceede a vessell for the finer.
Proverbs 25:5	Take away the wicked from the King, and his throne shall be stablished in righteousnes.
Proverbs 25:6	Boast not thy selfe before the King, and stand not in the place of great men.
Proverbs 25:7	For it is better, that it be saide vnto thee, Come vp hither, then thou to be put lower in the presece of the prince whom thine eyes haue seene.
Proverbs 25:8	Goe not foorth hastily to strife, least thou know not what to doe in the ende thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame.
Proverbs 25:9	Debate thy matter with thy neighbour, and discouer not the secret to another,
Proverbs 25:10	Least he that heareth it put thee to shame, and thine infamie doe not cease.
Proverbs 25:11	A word spoken in his place, is like apples of golde with pictures of siluer.
Proverbs 25:12	He that reprooueth the wise, and the obedient eare, is as a golden earering and an ornament of fine golde.
Proverbs 25:13	As the colde of the snowe in the time of haruest, so is a faithfull messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soule of his masters.
Proverbs 25:14	A man that boasteth of false liberalitie, is like cloudes and winde without raine.
Proverbs 25:15	A Prince is pacified by staying of anger, and a soft tongue breaketh the bones.
Proverbs 25:16	If thou haue found hony, eate that is sufficient for thee, least thou be ouerfull, and vomit it.
Proverbs 25:17	Withdrawe thy foote from thy neighbours house, least he be weary of thee, and hate thee.
Proverbs 25:18	A man that beareth false witnes against his neighbour, is like an hammer and a sword, and a sharpe arrowe.
Proverbs 25:19	Confidence in an vnfaythfull man in time of trouble, is like a broken tooth and a sliding foote.
Proverbs 25:20	Hee that taketh away the garment in the colde season, is like vineger powred vpon nitre, or like him that singeth songs to an heauy heart.
Proverbs 25:21	If hee that hateth thee be hungry, giue him bread to eate, and if he be thirstie, giue him water to drinke.
Proverbs 25:22	For thou shalt lay coles vpon his head, and the Lord shall recompense thee.
Proverbs 25:23	As the Northwinde driueth away the raine, so doeth an angry countenance the slandering tongue.
Proverbs 25:24	It is better to dwell in a corner of the house top, then with a contentious woman in a wide house.
Proverbs 25:25	As are the colde waters to a weary soule, so is good newes from a farre countery.
Proverbs 25:26	A righteous man falling downe before the wicked, is like a troubled well, and a corrupt spring.
Proverbs 25:27	It is not good to eate much hony: so to search their owne glory is not glory.
Proverbs 25:28	A man that refraineth not his appetite, is like a citie which is broken downe and without walles.
Proverbs 26:1	As the snowe in the sommer, and as the raine in the haruest are not meete, so is honour vnseemely for a foole.
Proverbs 26:2	As the sparowe by flying, and the swallow by flying escape, so the curse that is causeles, shall not come.
Proverbs 26:3	Vnto the horse belongeth a whip, to the asse a bridle, and a rod to the fooles backe.
Proverbs 26:4	Answer not a foole according to his foolishnes, least thou also be like him.
Proverbs 26:5	Answere a foole according to his foolishnes, least he be wise in his owne conceite.
Proverbs 26:6	He that sendeth a message by the hand of a foole, is as he that cutteth off the feete, and drinketh iniquitie.
Proverbs 26:7	As they that lift vp the legs of the lame, so is a parable in a fooles mouth.
Proverbs 26:8	As the closing vp of a precious stone in an heape of stones, so is he that giueth glory to a foole.
Proverbs 26:9	As a thorne standing vp in the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouth of fooles.
Proverbs 26:10	The excellent that formed all things, both rewardeth the foole and rewardeth the transgressers.
Proverbs 26:11	As a dog turneth againe to his owne vomit, so a foole turneth to his foolishnes.
Proverbs 26:12	Seest thou a man wise in his owne conceite? more hope is of a foole then of him.
Proverbs 26:13	The slouthfull man sayth, A lyon is in the way: a lyon is in the streetes.
Proverbs 26:14	As the doore turneth vpon his hinges, so doeth the slouthfull man vpon his bed.
Proverbs 26:15	The slouthfull hideth his hand in his bosome, and it grieueth him to put it againe to his mouth.
Proverbs 26:16	The sluggard is wiser in his owne conceite, then seuen men that can render a reason.
Proverbs 26:17	He that passeth by and medleth with the strife that belongeth not vnto him, is as one that taketh a dog by the eares.
Proverbs 26:18	As he that faineth himselfe mad, casteth fire brands, arrowes, and mortall things,
Proverbs 26:19	So dealeth the deceitfull man with his friend and sayth, Am not I in sport?
Proverbs 26:20	Without wood the fire is quenched, and without a talebearer strife ceaseth.
Proverbs 26:21	As ye cole maketh burning coles, and wood a fire, so the contentious man is apt to kindle strife.
Proverbs 26:22	The wordes of a tale bearer are as flatterings, and they goe downe into the bowels of the belly.
Proverbs 26:23	As siluer drosse ouerlayde vpon a potsheard, so are burning lips, and an euill heart.
Proverbs 26:24	He that hateth, will counterfaite with his lips, but in his heart he layeth vp deceite.
Proverbs 26:25	Though he speake fauourably, beleeue him not: for there are seuen abominations in his heart.
Proverbs 26:26	Hatred may be couered by deceite: but the malice thereof shall be discouered in the congregation.
Proverbs 26:27	He that diggeth a pit shall fall therein, and he that rolleth a stone, it shall returne vnto him.
Proverbs 26:28	A false tongue hateth the afflicted, and a flattering mouth causeth ruine.
Proverbs 27:1	Boast not thy selfe of to morowe: for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth.
Proverbs 27:2	Let another man prayse thee, and not thine owne mouth: a stranger, and not thine owne lips.
Proverbs 27:3	A stone is heauie, and the sand weightie: but a fooles wrath is heauier then them both.
Proverbs 27:4	Anger is cruell, and wrath is raging: but who can stand before enuie?
Proverbs 27:5	Open rebuke is better then secret loue.
Proverbs 27:6	The wounds of a louer are faithful, and the kisses of an enemie are pleasant.
Proverbs 27:7	The person that is full, despiseth an hony combe: but vnto the hungry soule euery bitter thing is sweete.
Proverbs 27:8	As a bird that wandreth from her nest, so is a man that wandreth from his owne place.
Proverbs 27:9	As oyntment and perfume reioyce the heart, so doeth the sweetenes of a mans friend by hearty counsell.
Proverbs 27:10	Thine owne friend and thy fathers friend forsake thou not: neither enter into thy brothers house in the day of thy calamitie: for better is a neighbour that is neere, then a brother farre off.
Proverbs 27:11	My sonne, be wise, and reioyce mine heart, that I may answere him that reprocheth me.
Proverbs 27:12	A prudent man seeth the plague, and hideth himselfe: but the foolish goe on still, and are punished.
Proverbs 27:13	Take his garment that is surety for a stranger, and a pledge of him for the stranger.
Proverbs 27:14	He that prayseth his friend with a loude voyce, rising earely in the morning, it shall be counted to him as a curse.
Proverbs 27:15	A continual dropping in the day of raine, and a contentious woman are alike.
Proverbs 27:16	He that hideth her, hideth the winde, and she is as ye oyle in his right hand, that vttereth it selfe.
Proverbs 27:17	Yron sharpeneth yron, so doeth man sharpen the face of his friend.
Proverbs 27:18	He that keepeth the fig tree, shall eate the fruite thereof: so he that waiteth vpon his master, shall come to honour.
Proverbs 27:19	As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man.
Proverbs 27:20	The graue and destruction can neuer be full, so the eyes of man can neuer be satisfied.
Proverbs 27:21	As is the fining pot for siluer and the fornace for golde, so is euery man according to his dignitie.
Proverbs 27:22	Though thou shouldest bray a foole in a morter among wheate brayed with a pestell, yet will not his foolishnes depart from him.
Proverbs 27:23	Be diligent to know ye state of thy flocke, and take heede to the heardes.
Proverbs 27:24	For riches remaine not alway, nor the crowne from generation to generation.
Proverbs 27:25	The hey discouereth it selfe, and the grasse appeareth, and the herbes of the mountaines are gathered.
Proverbs 27:26	The lambes are for thy clothing, and the goates are the price of the fielde.
Proverbs 27:27	And let the milke of the goates be sufficient for thy foode, for the foode of thy familie, and for the sustenance of thy maydes.
Proverbs 28:1	The wicked flee when none pursueth: but the righteous are bolde as a lyon.
Proverbs 28:2	For the transgression of the land there are many princes thereof: but by a man of vnderstanding and knowledge a realme likewise endureth long.
Proverbs 28:3	A poore man, if he oppresse the poore, is like a raging raine, that leaueth no foode.
Proverbs 28:4	They that forsake the Law, prayse the wicked: but they that keepe the Law, set themselues against them.
Proverbs 28:5	Wicked men vnderstand not iudgemnt: but they that seeke the Lord vnderstand all things.
Proverbs 28:6	Better is the poore that walketh in his vprightnesse, then hee that peruerteth his wayes, though he be riche.
Proverbs 28:7	He that keepeth the Law, is a childe of vnderstanding: but hee that feedeth the gluttons, shameth his father.
Proverbs 28:8	He that increaseth his riches by vsurie and interest, gathereth them for him that will be mercifull vnto the poore.
Proverbs 28:9	He that turneth away his eare from hearing the Law, euen his prayer shalbe abominable.
Proverbs 28:10	He that causeth the righteous to go astray by an euill way, shall fall into his owne pit, and the vpright shall inherite good things.
Proverbs 28:11	The riche man is wise in his owne conceite: but the poore that hath vnderstanding, can trie him.
Proverbs 28:12	When righteous men reioyce, there is great glory: but when the wicked come vp, the man is tried.
Proverbs 28:13	He that hideth his sinnes, shall not prosper: but he that confesseth, and forsaketh them, shall haue mercy.
Proverbs 28:14	Blessed is the man that feareth alway: but he that hardeneth his heart, shall fall into euill.
Proverbs 28:15	As a roaring lyon, and an hungry beare, so is a wicked ruler ouer the poore people.
Proverbs 28:16	A prince destitute of vnderstanding, is also a great oppressour: but hee that hateth couetousnes, shall prolong his dayes.
Proverbs 28:17	A man that doeth violence against the blood of a person, shall flee vnto the graue, and they shall not stay him.
Proverbs 28:18	He that walketh vprightly, shalbe saued: but he that is froward in his wayes, shall once fall.
Proverbs 28:19	He that tilleth his land, shall be satisfied with bread: but he that followeth the idle, shall be filled with pouertie.
Proverbs 28:20	A faythfull man shall abound in blessings, and he that maketh haste to be riche, shall not be innocent.
Proverbs 28:21	To haue respect of persons is not good: for that man will transgresse for a piece of bread.
Proverbs 28:22	A man with a wicked eye hasteth to riches, and knoweth not, that pouertie shall come vpon him.
Proverbs 28:23	He that rebuketh a man, shall finde more fauour at length, then he that flattereth with his tongue.
Proverbs 28:24	Hee that robbeth his father and mother, and sayth, It is no transgression, is the companion of a man that destroyeth.
Proverbs 28:25	He that is of a proude heart, stirreth vp strife: but he that trusteth in the Lord, shall be fatte.
Proverbs 28:26	Hee that trusteth in his owne heart, is a foole: but he that walketh in wisdome, shall be deliuered.
Proverbs 28:27	He that giueth vnto the poore, shall not lacke: but he that hideth his eyes, shall haue many curses.
Proverbs 28:28	When the wicked rise vp, men hide them selues: but when they perish, ye righteous increase.
Proverbs 29:1	A man that hardeneth his necke when he is rebuked, shall suddenly be destroyed and can not be cured.
Proverbs 29:2	When the righteous are in authoritie, the people reioyce: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people sigh.
Proverbs 29:3	A man that loueth wisdome, reioyceth his father: but he that feedeth harlots, wasteth his substance.
Proverbs 29:4	A King by iudgement mainteineth ye countrey: but a man receiuing giftes, destroyeth it.
Proverbs 29:5	A man that flattereth his neighbour, spreadeth a net for his steps.
Proverbs 29:6	In the transgression of an euill man is his snare: but the righteous doeth sing and reioyce.
Proverbs 29:7	The righteous knoweth the cause of the poore: but the wicked regardeth not knowledge.
Proverbs 29:8	Scornefull men bring a citie into a snare: but wise men turne away wrath.
Proverbs 29:9	If a wise man contend with a foolish man, whether he be angry or laugh, there is no rest.
Proverbs 29:10	Bloodie men hate him that is vpright: but the iust haue care of his soule.
Proverbs 29:11	A foole powreth out all his minde: but a wise man keepeth it in till afterward.
Proverbs 29:12	Of a prince that hearkeneth to lyes, all his seruants are wicked.
Proverbs 29:13	The poore and the vsurer meete together, and the Lord lighteneth both their eyes.
Proverbs 29:14	A King that iudgeth the poore in trueth, his throne shalbe established for euer.
Proverbs 29:15	The rodde and correction giue wisdome: but a childe set a libertie, maketh his mother ashamed.
Proverbs 29:16	When the wicked are increased, transgression increaseth: but ye righteous shall see their fall.
Proverbs 29:17	Correct thy sonne and he will giue thee rest, and will giue pleasures to thy soule.
Proverbs 29:18	Where there is no vision, the people decay: but he that keepeth the Lawe, is blessed.
Proverbs 29:19	A seruant will not be chastised with words: though he vnderstand, yet he will not answere.
Proverbs 29:20	Seest thou a man hastie in his matters? there is more hope of a foole, then of him.
Proverbs 29:21	He that delicately bringeth vp his seruant from youth, at length he will be euen as his sone.
Proverbs 29:22	An angrie man stirreth vp strife, and a furious man aboundeth in transgression.
Proverbs 29:23	The pride of a man shall bring him lowe: but the humble in spirit shall enioy glory.
Proverbs 29:24	He that is partner with a thiefe, hateth his owne soule: he heareth cursing, and declareth it not.
Proverbs 29:25	The feare of man bringeth a snare: but he that trusteth in the Lord, shalbe exalted.
Proverbs 29:26	Many doe seeke the face of the ruler: but euery mans iudgement commeth from the Lord.
Proverbs 29:27	A wicked man is abomination to the iust, and he that is vpright in his way, is abomination to the wicked.
Proverbs 30:1	THE WORDS OF AGUR THE SONNE OF JAKEH. The prophecie which ye man spake vnto Ithiel, euen to Ithiel, and Vcal.
Proverbs 30:2	Surely I am more foolish then any man, and haue not the vnderstanding of a man in me.
Proverbs 30:3	For I haue not learned wisedome, nor atteined to the knowledge of holy things.
Proverbs 30:4	Who hath ascended vp to heauen, and descended? Who hath gathered the winde in his fist? Who hath bound the waters in a garment? Who hath established all the endes of the world? What is his name, and what is his sonnes name, if thou canst tell?
Proverbs 30:5	Euery worde of God is pure: he is a shield to those, that trust in him.
Proverbs 30:6	Put nothing vnto his wordes, least he reproue thee, and thou be found a lyar.
Proverbs 30:7	Two things haue I required of thee: denie me them not before I die.
Proverbs 30:8	Remooue farre from me vanitie and lyes: giue me not pouertie, nor riches: feede me with foode conuenient for me,
Proverbs 30:9	Least I be full, and denie thee, and say, Who is the Lord? or least I be poore and steale, and take the Name of my God in vaine.
Proverbs 30:10	Accuse not a seruant vnto his master, lest he curse thee, when thou hast offended.
Proverbs 30:11	There is a generation that curseth their father, and doeth not blesse their mother.
Proverbs 30:12	There is a generation that are pure in their owne conceite, and yet are not washed from their filthinesse.
Proverbs 30:13	There is a generation, whose eies are hautie, and their eye liddes are lifted vp.
Proverbs 30:14	There is a generation, whose teeth are as swordes, and their chawes as kniues to eate vp the afflicted out of the earth, and the poore from among men.
Proverbs 30:15	The horse leache hath two daughters which crye, Giue, giue. There be three things that will not be satisfied: yea, foure that say not, It is ynough.
Proverbs 30:16	The graue, and the barren wombe, the earth that cannot be satisfied with water, and the fire that sayeth not, It is ynough.
Proverbs 30:17	The eye that mocketh his father and despiseth the instruction of his mother, let ye rauens of the valley picke it out, and the yong eagles eate it.
Proverbs 30:18	There be three thinges hid from me: yea, foure that I knowe not,
Proverbs 30:19	The way of an eagle in the aire, the way of a serpent vpon a stone, ye way of a ship in ye middes of the sea, and the way of a man with a maide.
Proverbs 30:20	Such is ye way also of an adulterous woman: she eateth and wipeth her mouth, and sayth, I haue not committed iniquitie.
Proverbs 30:21	For three things the earth is moued: yea, for foure it cannot susteine it selfe:
Proverbs 30:22	For a seruant when he reigneth, and a foole when he is filled with meate,
Proverbs 30:23	For the hatefull woman, when she is married, and for a handmaid that is heire to her mistres.
Proverbs 30:24	These be foure small things in the earth, yet they are wise and full of wisedome:
Proverbs 30:25	The pismires a people not strong, yet prepare they their meate in sommer:
Proverbs 30:26	The conies a people not mightie, yet make their houses in the rocke:
Proverbs 30:27	The grashopper hath no King, yet goe they forth all by bandes:
Proverbs 30:28	The spider taketh holde with her handes, and is in Kings palaces.
Proverbs 30:29	There be three thinges that order well their going: yea, foure are comely in going,
Proverbs 30:30	A lyon which is strong among beastes, and turneth not at the sight of any:
Proverbs 30:31	A lusty grayhound, and a goate, and a King against whom there is no rising vp.
Proverbs 30:32	If thou hast bene foolish in lifting thy selfe vp, and if thou hast thought wickedly, lay thine hand vpon thy mouth.
Proverbs 30:33	When one churneth milke, he bringeth foorth butter: and he that wringeth his nose, causeth blood to come out: so he that forceth wrath, bringeth foorth strife.
Proverbs 31:1	THE WORDS OF KING LEMUEL: The prophecie which his mother taught him.
Proverbs 31:2	What my sonne! and what ye sonne of my wombe! and what, O sonne of my desires!
Proverbs 31:3	Giue not thy strength vnto women, nor thy wayes, which is to destroy Kings.
Proverbs 31:4	It is not for Kings, O Lemuel, it is not for Kings to drink wine nor for princes strog drinke,
Proverbs 31:5	Lest he drinke and forget the decree, and change the iudgement of all the children of affliction.
Proverbs 31:6	Giue ye strong drinke vnto him that is readie to perish, and wine vnto them that haue griefe of heart.
Proverbs 31:7	Let him drinke, that he may forget his pouertie, and remember his miserie no more.
Proverbs 31:8	Open thy mouth for the domme in the cause of all the children of destruction.
Proverbs 31:9	Open thy mouth: iudge righteously, and iudge the afflicted, and the poore.
Proverbs 31:10	Who shall finde a vertuous woman? for her price is farre aboue the pearles.
Proverbs 31:11	The heart of her husband trusteth in her, and he shall haue no neede of spoyle.
Proverbs 31:12	She will doe him good, and not euill all the dayes of her life.
Proverbs 31:13	She seeketh wooll and flaxe, and laboureth cheerefully with her handes.
Proverbs 31:14	She is like the shippes of marchants: shee bringeth her foode from afarre.
Proverbs 31:15	And she riseth, whiles it is yet night: and giueth the portion to her houshold, and the ordinarie to her maides.
Proverbs 31:16	She considereth a field, and getteth it: and with the fruite of her handes she planteth a vineyarde.
Proverbs 31:17	She girdeth her loynes with strength, and strengtheneth her armes.
Proverbs 31:18	She feeleth that her marchandise is good: her candle is not put out by night.
Proverbs 31:19	She putteth her handes to the wherue, and her handes handle the spindle.
Proverbs 31:20	She stretcheth out her hand to the poore, and putteth foorth her hands to the needie.
Proverbs 31:21	She feareth not the snowe for her familie: for all her familie is clothed with skarlet.
Proverbs 31:22	She maketh her selfe carpets: fine linen and purple is her garment.
Proverbs 31:23	Her husband is knowen in the gates, when he sitteth with the Elders of the land.
Proverbs 31:24	She maketh sheetes, and selleth them, and giueth girdels vnto the marchant.
Proverbs 31:25	Strength and honour is her clothing, and in the latter day she shall reioyce.
Proverbs 31:26	She openeth her mouth with wisdome, and the lawe of grace is in her tongue.
Proverbs 31:27	She ouerseeth the wayes of her housholde, and eateth not the bread of ydlenes.
Proverbs 31:28	Her children rise vp, and call her blessed: her husband also shall prayse her, saying,
Proverbs 31:29	Many daughters haue done vertuously: but thou surmountest them all.
Proverbs 31:30	Fauour is deceitfull, and beautie is vanitie: but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praysed.
Proverbs 31:31	Giue her of the fruite of her hands, and let her owne workes prayse her in the gates.

===== BOOK: Psalm =====
Psalm 1:1	Blessed is the man that doeth not walke in the counsell of the wicked, nor stand in the way of sinners, nor sit in ye seate of the scornefull:
Psalm 1:2	But his delite is in the Lawe of the Lord, and in his Lawe doeth he meditate day and night.
Psalm 1:3	For he shall be like a tree planted by the riuers of waters, that will bring foorth her fruite in due season: whose leafe shall not fade: so whatsoeuer he shall doe, shall prosper.
Psalm 1:4	The wicked are not so, but as the chaffe, which the winde driueth away.
Psalm 1:5	Therefore the wicked shall not stande in the iudgement, nor sinners in the assemblie of the righteous.
Psalm 1:6	For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, and the way of the wicked shall perish.
Psalm 2:1	Why doe the heathen rage, and the people murmure in vaine?
Psalm 2:2	The Kings of the earth band themselues, and the princes are assembled together against the Lord, and against his Christ.
Psalm 2:3	Let vs breake their bands, and cast their cordes from vs.
Psalm 2:4	But he that dwelleth in the heauen, shall laugh: the Lord shall haue them in derision.
Psalm 2:5	Then shall hee speake vnto them in his wrath, and vexe them in his sore displeasure, saying,
Psalm 2:6	Euen I haue set my King vpon Zion mine holy mountaine.
Psalm 2:7	I will declare the decree: that is, the Lord hath said vnto me, Thou art my Sonne: this day haue I begotten thee.
Psalm 2:8	Aske of me, and I shall giue thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the endes of the earth for thy possession.
Psalm 2:9	Thou shalt krush them with a scepter of yron, and breake them in pieces like a potters vessell.
Psalm 2:10	Be wise nowe therefore, ye Kings: be learned ye Iudges of the earth.
Psalm 2:11	Serue the Lord in feare, and reioyce in trembling.
Psalm 2:12	Kisse the sonne, least he be angry, and ye perish in the way, when his wrath shall suddenly burne. blessed are all that trust in him.
Psalm 3:1	A Psalme of Dauid, when he fled from his sonne Absalom. Lord, howe are mine aduersaries increased? howe many rise against me?
Psalm 3:2	Many say to my soule, There is no helpe for him in God. Selah.
Psalm 3:3	But thou Lord art a buckler for me: my glory, and the lifter vp of mine head.
Psalm 3:4	I did call vnto the Lord with my voyce, and he heard me out of his holy mountaine. Selah.
Psalm 3:5	I layed me downe and slept, and rose vp againe: for the Lord susteined me.
Psalm 3:6	I will not be afrayde for ten thousand of the people, that should beset me round about.
Psalm 3:7	O Lord, arise: helpe me, my God: for thou hast smitten all mine enemies vpon the cheeke bone: thou hast broken the teeth of the wicked.
Psalm 3:8	Saluation belongeth vnto the Lord, and thy blessing is vpon thy people. Selah.
Psalm 4:1	To him that excelleth on Neginoth. A Psalme of Dauid. Heare me when I call, O God of my righteousnes: thou hast set me at libertie, when I was in distresse: haue mercie vpon me and hearken vnto my prayer.
Psalm 4:2	O ye sonnes of men, howe long will yee turne my glory into shame, louing vanitie, and seeking lyes? Selah.
Psalm 4:3	For be ye sure that the Lord hath chosen to himselfe a godly man: the Lord will heare when I call vnto him.
Psalm 4:4	Tremble, and sinne not: examine your owne heart vpon your bed, and be still. Selah.
Psalm 4:5	Offer the sacrifices of righteousnes, and trust in the Lord.
Psalm 4:6	Many say, Who will shewe vs any good? but Lord, lift vp the light of thy countenance vpon vs.
Psalm 4:7	Thou hast giuen mee more ioye of heart, then they haue had, when their wheate and their wine did abound.
Psalm 4:8	I will lay mee downe, and also sleepe in peace: for thou, Lord, onely makest me dwell in safetie.
Psalm 5:1	To him that excelleth upon Nehiloth. A Psalme of Dauid. Heare my wordes, O Lord: vnderstande my meditation.
Psalm 5:2	Hearken vnto the voyce of my crie, my King and my God: for vnto thee doe I pray.
Psalm 5:3	Heare my voyce in the morning, O Lord: for in the morning will I direct me vnto thee, and I will waite.
Psalm 5:4	For thou art not a God that loueth wickednes: neither shall euill dwell with thee.
Psalm 5:5	The foolish shall not stand in thy sight: for thou hatest all them that worke iniquitie.
Psalm 5:6	Thou shalt destroy them that speake lyes: the Lord will abhorre the bloodie man and deceitfull.
Psalm 5:7	But I wil come into thine house in the multitude of thy mercie: and in thy feare will I worship toward thine holy Temple.
Psalm 5:8	Leade me, O Lord, in thy righteousnes, because of mine enemies: make thy way plaine before my face.
Psalm 5:9	For no constancie is in their mouth: within, they are very corruption: their throte is an open sepulchre, and they flatter with their tongue.
Psalm 5:10	Destroy them, O God: let them fall from their counsels: cast them out for the multitude of their iniquities, because they haue rebelled against thee.
Psalm 5:11	And let all them that trust in thee, reioyce and triumph for euer, and couer thou them: and let them, that loue thy Name, reioyce in thee.
Psalm 5:12	For thou Lord wilt blesse the righteous, and with fauour wilt compasse him, as with a shielde.
Psalm 6:1	To him that excelleth on Neginoth upon the eith tune. A Psalme of Dauid. O lord, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chastise me in thy wrath.
Psalm 6:2	Haue mercie vpon me, O Lord, for I am weake: O Lord heale me, for my bones are vexed.
Psalm 6:3	My soule is also sore troubled: but Lord how long wilt thou delay?
Psalm 6:4	Returne, O Lord: deliuer my soule: saue me for thy mercies sake.
Psalm 6:5	For in death there is no remembrance of thee: in the graue who shall prayse thee?
Psalm 6:6	I fainted in my mourning: I cause my bed euery night to swimme, and water my couch with my teares.
Psalm 6:7	Mine eye is dimmed for despight, and sunke in because of all mine enemies.
Psalm 6:8	Away from mee all ye workers of iniquitie: for the Lord hath heard the voyce of my weeping.
Psalm 6:9	The Lord hath heard my petition: the Lord will receiue my prayer.
Psalm 6:10	All mine enemies shall be confounded and sore vexed: they shall be turned backe, and put to shame suddenly.
Psalm 7:1	Shigaion of Dauid, which he sang unto the Lord, concerning the wordes of Chush the sonne of Iemini. O Lord my God, in thee I put my trust: saue me from all that persecute me, and deliuer me,
Psalm 7:2	Least he deuoure my soule like a lion, and teare it in pieces, while there is none to helpe.
Psalm 7:3	O Lord my God, if I haue done this thing, if there be any wickednes in mine handes,
Psalm 7:4	If I haue rewarded euill vnto him that had peace with mee, (yea I haue deliuered him that vexed me without cause)
Psalm 7:5	Then let the enemie persecute my soule and take it: yea, let him treade my life downe vpon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah.
Psalm 7:6	Arise, O Lord, in thy wrath, and lift vp thy selfe against the rage of mine enemies, and awake for mee according to the iudgement that thou hast appointed.
Psalm 7:7	So shall the Congregation of the people compasse thee about: for their sakes therefore returne on hie.
Psalm 7:8	The Lord shall iudge the people: Iudge thou me, O Lord, according to my righteousnesse, and according to mine innocencie, that is in mee.
Psalm 7:9	Oh let the malice of the wicked come to an ende: but guide thou the iust: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reines.
Psalm 7:10	My defence is in God, who preserueth the vpright in heart.
Psalm 7:11	God iudgeth the righteous, and him that contemneth God euery day.
Psalm 7:12	Except he turne, he hath whet his sword: he hath bent his bowe and made it readie.
Psalm 7:13	Hee hath also prepared him deadly weapons: hee will ordeine his arrowes for them that persecute me.
Psalm 7:14	Beholde, hee shall trauaile with wickednes: for he hath conceiued mischiefe, but he shall bring foorth a lye.
Psalm 7:15	Hee hath made a pitte and digged it, and is fallen into the pit that he made.
Psalm 7:16	His mischiefe shall returne vpon his owne head, and his crueltie shall fall vpon his owne pate.
Psalm 7:17	I wil praise the Lord according to his righteousnes, and will sing praise to the Name of the Lord most high.
Psalm 8:1	To him that excelleth on Gittith. A Psalme of Dauid. O Lord our Lord, how excellent is thy Name in all the worlde! which hast set thy glory aboue the heauens.
Psalm 8:2	Out of the mouth of babes and suckelings hast thou ordeined strength, because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemie and the auenger.
Psalm 8:3	When I beholde thine heauens, euen the workes of thy fingers, the moone and the starres which thou hast ordeined,
Psalm 8:4	What is man, say I, that thou art mindefull of him? and the sonne of man, that thou visitest him?
Psalm 8:5	For thou hast made him a little lower then God, and crowned him with glory and worship.
Psalm 8:6	Thou hast made him to haue dominion in the workes of thine hands: thou hast put all things vnder his feete:
Psalm 8:7	All sheepe and oxen: yea, and the beastes of the fielde:
Psalm 8:8	The foules of the ayre, and the fish of the sea, and that which passeth through the paths of the seas.
Psalm 8:9	O Lord our Lord, howe excellent is thy Name in all the world!
Psalm 9:1	To him that excelleth vpon Muth Laben. A Psalme of Dauid. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart: I will speake of all thy marueilous workes.
Psalm 9:2	I will bee glad, and reioyce in thee: I will sing praise to thy Name, O most High,
Psalm 9:3	For that mine enemies are turned backe: they shall fall, and perish at thy presence.
Psalm 9:4	For thou hast maintained my right and my cause: thou art set in the throne, and iudgest right.
Psalm 9:5	Thou hast rebuked the heathen: thou hast destroyed the wicked: thou hast put out their name for euer and euer.
Psalm 9:6	O enemie, destructions are come to a perpetual end, and thou hast destroyed the cities: their memoriall is perished with them.
Psalm 9:7	But the Lord shall sit for euer: hee hath prepared his throne for iudgement.
Psalm 9:8	For he shall iudge the worlde in righteousnes, and shall iudge the people with equitie.
Psalm 9:9	The Lord also wil be a refuge for the poore, a refuge in due time, euen in affliction.
Psalm 9:10	And they that know thy Name, will trust in thee: for thou, Lord, hast not failed them that seeke thee.
Psalm 9:11	Sing praises to the Lord, which dwelleth in Zion: shewe the people his workes.
Psalm 9:12	For whe he maketh inquisition for blood, hee remembreth it, and forgetteth not the complaint of the poore.
Psalm 9:13	Haue mercie vpon mee, O Lord: consider my trouble which I suffer of them that hate mee, thou that liftest me vp from the gates of death,
Psalm 9:14	That I may shewe all thy praises within the gates of the daughter of Zion, and reioyce in thy saluation.
Psalm 9:15	The heathen are sunken downe in the pit that they made: in the nette that they hid, is their foote taken.
Psalm 9:16	The Lord is knowen by executing iudgement: the wicked is snared in the worke of his owne handes. Higgaion. Selah.
Psalm 9:17	The wicked shall turne into hell, and all nations that forget God.
Psalm 9:18	For the poore shall not bee alway forgotten: the hope of the afflicted shall not perish for euer.
Psalm 9:19	Vp Lord: let not man preuaile: let the heathen be iudged in thy sight.
Psalm 9:20	Put them in feare, O Lord, that the heathen may knowe that they are but men. Selah.
Psalm 10:1	Why standest thou farre off, O Lord, and hidest thee in due time, euen in affliction?
Psalm 10:2	The wicked with pride doeth persecute the poore: let them be taken in the craftes that they haue imagined.
Psalm 10:3	For the wicked hath made boast of his owne heartes desire, and the couetous blesseth himselfe: he contemneth the Lord.
Psalm 10:4	The wicked is so proude that hee seeketh not for God: hee thinketh alwayes, There is no God.
Psalm 10:5	His wayes alway prosper: thy iudgements are hie aboue his sight: therefore defieth he all his enemies.
Psalm 10:6	He saith in his heart, I shall neuer be moued, nor be in danger.
Psalm 10:7	His mouth is full of cursing and deceite and fraude: vnder his tongue is mischiefe and iniquitie.
Psalm 10:8	He lieth in waite in the villages: in the secret places doeth hee murder the innocent: his eyes are bent against the poore.
Psalm 10:9	He lyeth in waite secretly, euen as a lyon in his denne: he lyeth in waite to spoyle the poore: he doeth spoyle the poore, when he draweth him into his net.
Psalm 10:10	He croucheth and boweth: therefore heaps of the poore doe fall by his might.
Psalm 10:11	He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten, he hideth away his face, and will neuer see.
Psalm 10:12	Arise, O Lord God: lift vp thine hande: forget not the poore.
Psalm 10:13	Wherefore doeth the wicked contemne God? he saith in his heart, Thou wilt not regard.
Psalm 10:14	Yet thou hast seene it: for thou beholdest mischiefe and wrong, that thou mayest take it into thine handes: the poore committeth himselfe vnto thee: for thou art the helper of the fatherlesse.
Psalm 10:15	Breake thou the arme of the wicked and malicious: searche his wickednes, and thou shalt finde none.
Psalm 10:16	The Lord is King for euer and euer: the heathen are destroyed foorth of his land.
Psalm 10:17	Lord, thou hast heard the desire of the poore: thou preparest their heart: thou bendest thine eare to them,
Psalm 10:18	To iudge the fatherlesse and poore, that earthly man cause to feare no more.
Psalm 11:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of Dauid. In the Lord put I my trust: howe say yee then to my soule, Flee to your mountaine as a birde?
Psalm 11:2	For loe, the wicked bende their bowe, and make readie their arrowes vpon the string, that they may secretly shoote at them, which are vpright in heart.
Psalm 11:3	For the foundations are cast downe: what hath the righteous done?
Psalm 11:4	The Lord is in his holy palace: the Lordes throne is in the heauen: his eyes wil consider: his eye lids will try the children of men.
Psalm 11:5	The Lord will try the righteous: but the wicked and him that loueth iniquitie, doeth his soule hate.
Psalm 11:6	Vpon the wicked he shall raine snares, fire, and brimstone, and stormie tempest: this is the porcion of their cup.
Psalm 11:7	For the righteous Lord loueth righteousnes: his countenance doeth beholde the iust.
Psalm 12:1	To him that excelleth upon the eight tune. A Psalme of Dauid. Helpe Lord, for there is not a godly man left: for the faithfull are fayled from among the children of men.
Psalm 12:2	They speake deceitfully euery one with his neighbour, flattering with their lips, and speake with a double heart.
Psalm 12:3	The Lord cut off all flattering lippes, and the tongue that speaketh proude things:
Psalm 12:4	Which haue saide, With our tongue will we preuaile: our lippes are our owne: who is Lord ouer vs?
Psalm 12:5	Now for the oppression of the needy, and for the sighes of the poore, I will vp, sayeth the Lord, and will set at libertie him, whom the wicked hath snared.
Psalm 12:6	The wordes of the Lord are pure wordes, as the siluer, tried in a fornace of earth, fined seuen folde.
Psalm 12:7	Thou wilt keepe them, O Lord: thou wilt preserue him from this generation for euer.
Psalm 12:8	The wicked walke on euery side: when they are exalted, it is a shame for the sonnes of men.
Psalm 13:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of Dauid. Howe long wilt thou forget me, O Lord, for euer? howe long wilt thou hide thy face from me?
Psalm 13:2	How long shall I take counsell within my selfe, hauing wearinesse dayly in mine heart? how long shall mine enemie be exalted aboue me?
Psalm 13:3	Beholde, and heare mee, O Lord my God: lighten mine eyes, that I sleepe not in death:
Psalm 13:4	Lest mine enemie say, I haue preuailed against him: and they that afflict me, reioyce when I slide.
Psalm 13:5	But I trust in thy mercie: mine heart shall reioyce in thy saluation: I will sing to the Lord, because he hath delt louingly with me.
Psalm 14:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of Dauid. The foole hath said in his heart, There is no God: they haue corrupted, and done an abominable worke: there is none that doeth good.
Psalm 14:2	The Lord looked downe from heauen vpon the children of men, to see if there were any that would vnderstand, and seeke God.
Psalm 14:3	All are gone out of the way: they are all corrupt: there is none that doeth good, no not one.
Psalm 14:4	Doe not all the workers of iniquitie know that they eate vp my people, as they eate bread? they call not vpon the Lord.
Psalm 14:5	There they shall be taken with feare, because God is in the generation of the iust.
Psalm 14:6	You haue made a mocke at the counsell of the poore, because the Lord is his trust.
Psalm 14:7	Oh giue saluation vnto Israel out of Zion: when the Lord turneth the captiuitie of his people, then Iaakob shall reioyce, and Israel shall be glad.
Psalm 15:1	A Psalme of Dauid. Lord, who shall dwell in thy Tabernacle? who shall rest in thine holy Mountaine?
Psalm 15:2	He that walketh vprightly and worketh righteousnes, and speaketh the trueth in his heart.
Psalm 15:3	He that slandereth not with his tongue, nor doeth euill to his neighbour, nor receiueth a false report against his neighbour.
Psalm 15:4	In whose eyes a vile person is contemned, but he honoureth them that feare the Lord: he that sweareth to his owne hinderance and changeth not.
Psalm 15:5	He that giueth not his money vnto vsurie, nor taketh reward against the innocent: hee that doeth these things, shall neuer be moued.
Psalm 16:1	Michtam of Dauid. Preserue mee, O God: for in thee doe I trust.
Psalm 16:2	O my soule, thou hast sayd vnto the Lord, Thou art my Lord: my weldoing extendeth not to thee,
Psalm 16:3	But to the Saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent: all my delite is in them.
Psalm 16:4	The sorowes of them, that offer to an other god, shall be multiplied: their offerings of blood will I not offer, neither make mention of their names with my lips.
Psalm 16:5	The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup: thou shalt mainteine my lot.
Psalm 16:6	The lines are fallen vnto me in pleasant places: yea, I haue a faire heritage.
Psalm 16:7	I wil prayse the Lord, who hath giuen me counsell: my reines also teach me in the nightes.
Psalm 16:8	I haue set the Lord alwayes before me: for hee is at my right hand: therefore I shall not slide.
Psalm 16:9	Wherefore mine heart is glad and my tongue reioyceth: my flesh also doeth rest in hope.
Psalm 16:10	For thou wilt not leaue my soule in the graue: neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption.
Psalm 16:11	Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is the fulnesse of ioy: and at thy right hand there are pleasures for euermore.
Psalm 17:1	The prayer of Dauid. Heare the right, O Lord, consider my crye: hearken vnto my prayer of lips vnfained.
Psalm 17:2	Let my sentence come forth from thy presence, and let thine eyes beholde equitie.
Psalm 17:3	Thou hast prooued and visited mine heart in the night: thou hast tryed me, and foundest nothing: for I was purposed that my mouth should not offend.
Psalm 17:4	Concerning the workes of men, by the wordes of thy lips I kept mee from the paths of the cruell man.
Psalm 17:5	Stay my steps in thy paths, that my feete doe not slide.
Psalm 17:6	I haue called vpon thee: surely thou wilt heare me, O God: incline thine eare to me, and hearken vnto my wordes.
Psalm 17:7	Shewe thy marueilous mercies, thou that art the Sauiour of them that trust in thee, from such as resist thy right hand.
Psalm 17:8	Keepe me as the apple of the eye: hide me vnder the shadowe of thy wings,
Psalm 17:9	From the wicked that oppresse mee, from mine enemies, which compasse me round about for my soule.
Psalm 17:10	They are inclosed in their owne fat, and they haue spoken proudely with their mouth.
Psalm 17:11	They haue compassed vs now in our steps: they haue set their eyes to bring downe to the ground:
Psalm 17:12	Like as a lyon that is greedy of pray, and as it were a lyons whelp lurking in secret places.
Psalm 17:13	Vp Lord, disappoint him: cast him downe: deliuer my soule from the wicked with thy sworde,
Psalm 17:14	From men by thine hand, O Lord, from men of the world, who haue their portion in this life, whose bellies thou fillest with thine hid treasure: their children haue ynough, and leaue the rest of their substance for their children.
Psalm 17:15	But I will beholde thy face in righteousnes, and when I awake, I shalbe satisfied with thine image.
Psalm 18:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of Dauid the seruant of the Lord, which spake unto the Lord the wordes of this song (in the day that the Lord delivered him for the hande of all this enemies, and form the and of saul) and sayd, I will loue thee dearely, O Lord my strength.
Psalm 18:2	The Lord is my rocke, and my fortresse, and he that deliuereth me, my God and my strength: in him will I trust, my shield, the horne also of my saluation, and my refuge.
Psalm 18:3	I will call vpon the Lord, which is worthie to be praysed: so shall I be safe from mine enemies.
Psalm 18:4	The sorowes of death compassed me, and the floods of wickednes made me afraide.
Psalm 18:5	The sorowes of the graue haue compassed me about: the snares of death ouertooke me.
Psalm 18:6	But in my trouble did I call vpon the Lord, and cryed vnto my God: he heard my voyce out of his Temple, and my crye did come before him, euen into his eares.
Psalm 18:7	Then the earth trembled, and quaked: the foundations also of the mountaines mooued and shooke, because he was angrie.
Psalm 18:8	Smoke went out at his nostrels, and a consuming fire out of his mouth: coales were kindled thereat.
Psalm 18:9	He bowed the heauens also and came downe, and darkenes was vnder his feete.
Psalm 18:10	And he rode vpon Cherub and did flie, and he came flying vpon the wings of the winde.
Psalm 18:11	He made darkenes his secrete place, and his pauilion round about him, euen darkenesse of waters, and cloudes of the ayre.
Psalm 18:12	At the brightnes of his presence his clouds passed, haylestones and coles of fire.
Psalm 18:13	The Lord also thundred in the heauen, and the Highest gaue his voyce, haylestones and coales of fire.
Psalm 18:14	Then hee sent out his arrowes and scattred them, and he increased lightnings and destroyed them.
Psalm 18:15	And the chanels of waters were seene, and the foundations of the worlde were discouered at thy rebuking, O Lord, at the blasting of the breath of thy nostrels.
Psalm 18:16	He hath sent downe from aboue and taken mee: hee hath drawen mee out of many waters.
Psalm 18:17	He hath deliuered mee from my strong enemie, and from them which hate me: for they were too strong for me.
Psalm 18:18	They preuented me in the day of my calamitie: but the Lord was my stay.
Psalm 18:19	Hee brought mee foorth also into a large place: hee deliuered mee because hee fauoured me.
Psalm 18:20	The Lord rewarded me according to my righteousnes: according to the purenes of mine hands he recompensed me:
Psalm 18:21	Because I kept the wayes of the Lord, and did not wickedly against my God.
Psalm 18:22	For all his Lawes were before mee, and I did not cast away his commandements from mee.
Psalm 18:23	I was vpright also with him, and haue kept me from my wickednes.
Psalm 18:24	Therefore the Lord rewarded me according to my righteousnesse, and according to the purenes of mine hands in his sight.
Psalm 18:25	With the godly thou wilt shewe thy selfe godly: with the vpright man thou wilt shew thy selfe vpright.
Psalm 18:26	With the pure thou wilt shewe thy selfe pure, and with the froward thou wilt shewe thy selfe froward.
Psalm 18:27	Thus thou wilt saue the poore people, and wilt cast downe the proude lookes.
Psalm 18:28	Surely thou wilt light my candle: the Lord my God wil lighten my darkenes.
Psalm 18:29	For by thee I haue broken through an hoste, and by my God I haue leaped ouer a wall.
Psalm 18:30	The way of God is vncorrupt: the worde of the Lord is tried in the fire: he is a shield to all that trust in him.
Psalm 18:31	For who is God besides the Lord? and who is mightie saue our God?
Psalm 18:32	God girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way vpright.
Psalm 18:33	He maketh my feete like hindes feete, and setteth me vpon mine high places.
Psalm 18:34	He teacheth mine hands to fight: so that a bowe of brasse is broken with mine armes.
Psalm 18:35	Thou hast also giuen me the shield of thy saluation, and thy right hand hath stayed me, and thy louing kindenes hath caused me to increase.
Psalm 18:36	Thou hast enlarged my steps vnder mee, and mine heeles haue not slid.
Psalm 18:37	I haue pursued mine enemies, and taken them, and haue not turned againe till I had consumed them.
Psalm 18:38	I haue wounded them, that they were not able to rise: they are fallen vnder my feete.
Psalm 18:39	For thou hast girded me with strength to battell: them, that rose against me, thou hast subdued vnder me.
Psalm 18:40	And thou hast giuen me the neckes of mine enemies, that I might destroy them that hate me.
Psalm 18:41	They cryed but there was none to saue them, euen vnto the Lord, but hee answered them not.
Psalm 18:42	Then I did beate them small as the dust before the winde: I did treade them flat as the clay in the streetes.
Psalm 18:43	Thou hast deliuered me from the contentions of the people: thou hast made me the head of the heathen: a people, whom I haue not knowen, shall serue me.
Psalm 18:44	As soone as they heare, they shall obey me: the strangers shall be in subiection to me.
Psalm 18:45	Strangers shall shrinke away, and feare in their priuie chambers.
Psalm 18:46	Let the Lord liue, and blessed be my strength, and the God of my saluation be exalted.
Psalm 18:47	It is God that giueth me power to auenge me, and subdueth the people vnder me.
Psalm 18:48	O my deliuerer from mine enemies, euen thou hast set mee vp from them, that rose against me: thou hast deliuered mee from the cruell man.
Psalm 18:49	Therefore I will prayse thee, O Lord, among the nations, and wil sing vnto thy Name.
Psalm 18:50	Great deliuerances giueth hee vnto his King, and sheweth mercie to his anoynted, euen to Dauid, and to his seede for euer.
Psalm 19:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of Dauid. The heauens declare the glory of God, and the firmament sheweth ye worke of his hands.
Psalm 19:2	Day vnto day vttereth the same, and night vnto night teacheth knowledge.
Psalm 19:3	There is no speach nor language, where their voyce is not heard.
Psalm 19:4	Their line is gone forth through all the earth, and their words into the endes of the world: in them hath he set a tabernacle for the sunne.
Psalm 19:5	Which commeth forth as a bridegrome out of his chamber, and reioyceth like a mightie man to runne his race.
Psalm 19:6	His going out is from the ende of the heauen, and his compasse is vnto the endes of ye same, and none is hid from the heate thereof.
Psalm 19:7	The Lawe of the Lord is perfite, conuerting the soule: the testimonie of the Lord is sure, and giueth wisedome vnto the simple.
Psalm 19:8	The statutes of the Lord are right and reioyce the heart: the commandement of the Lord is pure, and giueth light vnto the eyes.
Psalm 19:9	The feare of the Lord is cleane, and indureth for euer: the iudgements of the Lord are trueth: they are righteous altogether,
Psalm 19:10	And more to be desired then golde, yea, then much fine golde: sweeter also then honie and the honie combe.
Psalm 19:11	Moreouer by them is thy seruant made circumspect, and in keeping of them there is great reward.
Psalm 19:12	Who can vnderstand his faultes? clense me from secret fautes.
Psalm 19:13	Keepe thy seruant also from presumptuous sinnes: let them not reigne ouer me: so shall I be vpright, and made cleane from much wickednes.
Psalm 19:14	Let the wordes of my mouth, and the meditation of mine heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength, and my redeemer.
Psalm 20:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of Dauid. The Lord heare thee in the day of trouble: the name of ye God of Iaakob defend thee:
Psalm 20:2	Send thee helpe from the Sanctuarie, and strengthen thee out of Zion.
Psalm 20:3	Let him remember all thine offerings, and turne thy burnt offerings into asshes. Selah:
Psalm 20:4	And graunt thee according to thine heart, and fulfill all thy purpose:
Psalm 20:5	That we may reioyce in thy saluation, and set vp the banner in the Name of our God, when the Lord shall performe all thy petitions.
Psalm 20:6	Now know I that the Lord will helpe his anointed, and will heare him from his Sanctuarie, by the mightie helpe of his right hand.
Psalm 20:7	Some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember the Name of ye Lord our God.
Psalm 20:8	They are brought downe and fallen, but we are risen, and stand vpright.
Psalm 20:9	Saue Lord: let the King heare vs in the day that we call.
Psalm 21:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of Dauid. The King shall reioyce in thy strength, O Lord: yea how greatly shall he reioyce in thy saluation!
Psalm 21:2	Thou hast giuen him his hearts desire, and hast not denyed him the request of his lips. Selah.
Psalm 21:3	For thou diddest preuent him with liberall blessings, and didest set a crowne of pure gold vpon his head.
Psalm 21:4	He asked life of thee, and thou gauest him a long life for euer and euer.
Psalm 21:5	His glory is great in thy saluation: dignitie and honour hast thou laid vpon him.
Psalm 21:6	For thou hast set him as blessings for euer: thou hast made him glad with the ioy of thy countenance.
Psalm 21:7	Because the King trusteth in the Lord, and in the mercie of the most High, he shall not slide.
Psalm 21:8	Thine hand shall finde out all thine enemies, and thy right hand shall finde out them that hate thee.
Psalm 21:9	Thou shalt make them like a fierie ouen in time of thine anger: the Lord shall destroy them in his wrath, and the fire shall deuoure them.
Psalm 21:10	Their fruite shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seede from the children of men.
Psalm 21:11	For they intended euill against thee, and imagined mischiefe, but they shall not preuaile.
Psalm 21:12	Therefore shalt thou put them aparte, and the strings of thy bowe shalt thou make readie against their faces.
Psalm 21:13	Be thou exalted, O Lord, in thy strength: so will we sing and prayse thy power.
Psalm 22:1	To him that excelleth upon Aiieleth Hasshahar. A Psalme of Dauid. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me, and art so farre from mine health, and from the wordes of my roaring?
Psalm 22:2	O my God, I crie by day, but thou hearest not, and by night, but haue no audience.
Psalm 22:3	But thou art holy, and doest inhabite the prayses of Israel.
Psalm 22:4	Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didest deliuer them.
Psalm 22:5	They called vpon thee, and were deliuered: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded.
Psalm 22:6	But I am a worme, and not a man: a shame of men, and the contempt of the people.
Psalm 22:7	All they that see me, haue me in derision: they make a mowe and nod the head, saying,
Psalm 22:8	He trusted in the Lord, let him deliuer him: let him saue him, seeing he loueth him.
Psalm 22:9	But thou didest draw me out of ye wombe: thou gauest me hope, euen at my mothers breasts.
Psalm 22:10	I was cast vpon thee, euen from ye wombe: thou art my God from my mothers belly.
Psalm 22:11	Be not farre from me, because trouble is neere: for there is none to helpe me.
Psalm 22:12	Many yong bulles haue compassed me: mightie bulles of Bashan haue closed me about.
Psalm 22:13	They gape vpon me with their mouthes, as a ramping and roaring lyon.
Psalm 22:14	I am like water powred out, and all my bones are out of ioynt: mine heart is like waxe: it is molten in the middes of my bowels.
Psalm 22:15	My strength is dryed vp like a potsheard, and my tongue cleaueth to my iawes, and thou hast brought me into the dust of death.
Psalm 22:16	For dogges haue compassed me, and the assemblie of the wicked haue inclosed me: they perced mine hands and my feete.
Psalm 22:17	I may tell all my bones: yet they beholde, and looke vpon me.
Psalm 22:18	They part my garments among them, and cast lottes vpon my vesture.
Psalm 22:19	But be thou not farre off, O Lord, my strength: hasten to helpe me.
Psalm 22:20	Deliuer my soule from the sword: my desolate soule from the power of the dogge.
Psalm 22:21	Saue me from the lyons mouth, and answere me in sauing me from the hornes of the vnicornes.
Psalm 22:22	I wil declare thy Name vnto my brethren: in the middes of the Congregation will I praise thee, saying,
Psalm 22:23	Prayse the Lord, ye that feare him: magnifie ye him, all the seede of Iaakob, and feare ye him, all the seede of Israel.
Psalm 22:24	For he hath not despised nor abhorred ye affliction of the poore: neither hath he hid his face from him, but when he called vnto him, he heard.
Psalm 22:25	My prayse shalbe of thee in the great Congregation: my vowes will I perfourme before them that feare him.
Psalm 22:26	The poore shall eate and be satisfied: they that seeke after the Lord, shall prayse him: your heart shall liue for euer.
Psalm 22:27	All the endes of the worlde shall remember themselues, and turne to the Lord: and all the kinreds of the nations shall worship before thee.
Psalm 22:28	For the kingdome is the Lords, and he ruleth among the nations.
Psalm 22:29	All they that be fat in the earth, shall eate and worship: all they that go downe into the dust, shall bowe before him, euen he that cannot quicken his owne soule.
Psalm 22:30	Their seede shall serue him: it shalbe counted vnto the Lord for a generation.
Psalm 22:31	They shall come, and shall declare his righteousnesse vnto a people that shall be borne, because he hath done it.
Psalm 23:1	A Psalme of David. The Lord is my shepheard, I shall not want.
Psalm 23:2	He maketh me to rest in greene pasture, and leadeth me by the still waters.
Psalm 23:3	He restoreth my soule, and leadeth me in the paths of righteousnesse for his Names sake.
Psalm 23:4	Yea, though I should walke through the valley of the shadowe of death, I will feare no euill: for thou art with me: thy rod and thy staffe, they comfort me.
Psalm 23:5	Thou doest prepare a table before me in the sight of mine aduersaries: thou doest anoynt mine head with oyle, and my cuppe runneth ouer.
Psalm 23:6	Doubtlesse kindnesse and mercie shall follow me all the dayes of my life, and I shall remaine a long season in the house of the Lord.
Psalm 24:1	A Psalme of David. The earth is the Lordes, and all that therein is: the worlde and they that dwell therein.
Psalm 24:2	For he hath founded it vpon the seas: and established it vpon the floods.
Psalm 24:3	Who shall ascende into the mountaine of the Lord? and who shall stand in his holy place?
Psalm 24:4	Euen he that hath innocent handes, and a pure heart: which hath not lift vp his minde vnto vanitie, nor sworne deceitfully.
Psalm 24:5	He shall receiue a blessing from the Lord, and righteousnesse from the God of his saluation.
Psalm 24:6	This is the generation of them that seeke him, of them that seeke thy face, this is Iaakob. Selah.
Psalm 24:7	Lift vp your heads ye gates, and be ye lift vp ye euerlasting doores, and the King of glory shall come in.
Psalm 24:8	Who is this King of glorie? the Lord, strong and mightie, euen the Lord mightie in battell.
Psalm 24:9	Lift vp your heads, ye gates, and lift vp your selues, ye euerlasting doores, and the King of glorie shall come in.
Psalm 24:10	Who is this King of glory? the Lord of hostes, he is the King of glorie. Selah.
Psalm 25:1	A Psalme of David. Unto thee, O Lord, lift I vp my soule.
Psalm 25:2	My God, I trust in thee: let me not be confounded: let not mine enemies reioyce ouer mee.
Psalm 25:3	So all that hope in thee, shall not be ashamed: but let them be confounded, that transgresse without cause.
Psalm 25:4	Shew me thy waies, O Lord, and teache me thy paths.
Psalm 25:5	Leade me foorth in thy trueth, and teache me: for thou art the God of my saluation: in thee doe I trust all the day.
Psalm 25:6	Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies, and thy louing kindnesse: for they haue beene for euer.
Psalm 25:7	Remember not the sinnes of my youth, nor my rebellions, but according to thy kindenesse remember thou me, euen for thy goodnesse sake, O Lord.
Psalm 25:8	Gracious and righteous is the Lord: therefore will he teache sinners in the way.
Psalm 25:9	Them that be meeke, will hee guide in iudgement, and teach the humble his way.
Psalm 25:10	All the pathes of the Lord are mercie and trueth vnto such as keepe his couenant and his testimonies.
Psalm 25:11	For thy Names sake, O Lord, be merciful vnto mine iniquitie, for it is great.
Psalm 25:12	What man is he that feareth the Lord? him wil he teache the way that hee shall chuse.
Psalm 25:13	His soule shall dwell at ease, and his seede shall inherite the land.
Psalm 25:14	The secrete of the Lord is reueiled to them, that feare him: and his couenant to giue them vnderstanding.
Psalm 25:15	Mine eyes are euer towarde the Lord: for he will bring my feete out of the net.
Psalm 25:16	Turne thy face vnto mee, and haue mercie vpon me: for I am desolate and poore.
Psalm 25:17	The sorowes of mine heart are enlarged: drawe me out of my troubles.
Psalm 25:18	Looke vpon mine affliction and my trauel, and forgiue all my sinnes.
Psalm 25:19	Beholde mine enemies, for they are manie, and they hate me with cruell hatred.
Psalm 25:20	Keepe my soule, and deliuer me: let me not be confounded, for I trust in thee.
Psalm 25:21	Let mine vprightnes and equitie preserue me: for mine hope is in thee.
Psalm 25:22	Deliuer Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.
Psalm 26:1	A Psalme of David. Judge me, O Lord, for I haue walked in mine innocency: my trust hath bene also in the Lord: therefore shall I not slide.
Psalm 26:2	Proue me, O Lord, and trie mee: examine my reines, and mine heart.
Psalm 26:3	For thy louing kindnesse is before mine eyes: therefore haue I walked in thy trueth.
Psalm 26:4	I haue not hanted with vaine persons, neither kept companie with the dissemblers.
Psalm 26:5	I haue hated the assemblie of the euill, and haue not companied with the wicked.
Psalm 26:6	I will wash mine handes in innocencie, O Lord, and compasse thine altar,
Psalm 26:7	That I may declare with the voyce of thankesgiuing, and set foorth all thy wonderous woorkes.
Psalm 26:8	O Lord, I haue loued the habitation of thine house, and the place where thine honour dwelleth.
Psalm 26:9	Gather not my soule with the sinners, nor my life with the bloodie men:
Psalm 26:10	In whose handes is wickednes, and their right hand is full of bribes.
Psalm 26:11	But I will walke in mine innocencie: redeeme me therefore, and be mercifull vnto me.
Psalm 26:12	My foote standeth in vprightnesse: I will praise thee, O Lord, in the Congregations.
Psalm 27:1	A Psalme of David. The Lord is my light and my saluation, whom shall I feare? the Lord is the strength of my life, of whome shall I be afraide?
Psalm 27:2	When the wicked, euen mine enemies and my foes came vpon mee to eate vp my flesh; they stumbled and fell.
Psalm 27:3	Though an hoste pitched against me, mine heart should not be afraide: though warre be raised against me, I will trust in this.
Psalm 27:4	One thing haue I desired of the Lord, that I will require, euen that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the dayes of my life, to beholde the beautie of the Lord, and to visite his Temple.
Psalm 27:5	For in the time of trouble hee shall hide mee in his Tabernacle: in the secrete place of his pauillion shall he hide me, and set me vp vpon a rocke.
Psalm 27:6	And nowe shall hee lift vp mine head aboue mine enemies rounde about mee: therefore wil I offer in his Tabernacle sacrifices of ioy: I wil sing and praise the Lord.
Psalm 27:7	Hearken vnto my voyce, O Lord, when I crie: haue mercie also vpon mee and heare mee.
Psalm 27:8	When thou saidest, Seeke ye my face, mine heart answered vnto thee, O Lord, I will seeke thy face.
Psalm 27:9	Hide not therefore thy face from mee, nor cast thy seruat away in displeasure: thou hast bene my succour: leaue me not, neither forsake mee, O God of my saluation.
Psalm 27:10	Though my father and my mother shoulde forsake me, yet the Lord will gather me vp.
Psalm 27:11	Teache mee thy way, O Lord, and leade me in a right path, because of mine enemies.
Psalm 27:12	Giue me not vnto the lust of mine aduersaries: for there are false witnesses risen vp against me, and such as speake cruelly.
Psalm 27:13	I should haue fainted, except I had beleeued to see the goodnes of the Lord in the land of the liuing.
Psalm 27:14	Hope in the Lord: be strong, and he shall comfort thine heart, and trust in the Lord.
Psalm 28:1	A Psalme of David. Unto thee, O Lord, doe I crie: O my strength, be not deafe toward mee, lest, if thou answere me not, I be like them that goe downe into the pit.
Psalm 28:2	Heare the voyce of my petitions, when I crie vnto thee, when I holde vp mine handes towarde thine holy Oracle.
Psalm 28:3	Drawe mee not away with the wicked, and with the woorkers of iniquitie: which speake friendly to their neighbours, when malice is in their hearts.
Psalm 28:4	Reward them according to their deedes, and according to the wickednes of their inuentions: recompense them after the woorke of their handes: render them their reward.
Psalm 28:5	For they regarde not the woorkes of the Lord, nor the operation of his handes: therefore breake them downe, and builde them not vp.
Psalm 28:6	Praised be the Lord, for he hath heard the voyce of my petitions.
Psalm 28:7	The Lord is my strength and my shielde: mine heart trusted in him, and I was helped: therfore mine heart shall reioyce, and with my song will I praise him.
Psalm 28:8	The Lord is their strength, and he is the strength of the deliuerances of his anointed.
Psalm 28:9	Saue thy people, and blesse thine inheritance: feede them also, and exalt them for euer.
Psalm 29:1	A Psalme of David. Give vnto the Lord, ye sonnes of the mightie: giue vnto the Lord glorie and strength.
Psalm 29:2	Giue vnto the Lord glorie due vnto his Name: worship the Lord in the glorious Sanctuarie.
Psalm 29:3	The voyce of the Lord is vpon the waters: the God of glorie maketh it to thunder: the Lord is vpon the great waters.
Psalm 29:4	The voyce of the Lord is mightie: the voyce of the Lord is glorious.
Psalm 29:5	The voyce of the Lord breaketh the cedars: yea, the Lord breaketh the cedars of Lebanon.
Psalm 29:6	He maketh them also to leape like a calfe: Lebanon also and Shirion like a yong vnicorne.
Psalm 29:7	The voice of the Lord deuideth the flames of sire.
Psalm 29:8	The voice of the Lord maketh the wildernes to tremble: the Lord maketh the wildernes of Kadesh to tremble.
Psalm 29:9	The voice of the Lord maketh the hindes to calue, and discouereth the forests: therefore in his Temple doth euery man speake of his glory.
Psalm 29:10	The Lord sitteth vpon the flood, and the Lord doeth remaine King for euer.
Psalm 29:11	The Lord shall giue strength vnto his people: the Lord shall blesse his people with peace.
Psalm 30:1	A Psalme or song of the dedication of the house of David. I will magnifie thee, O Lord: for thou hast exalted mee, and hast not made my foe to reioyce ouer me.
Psalm 30:2	O Lord my God, I cried vnto thee, and thou hast restored me.
Psalm 30:3	O Lord, thou hast brought vp my soule out of the graue: thou hast reuiued me from them that goe downe into the pit.
Psalm 30:4	Sing praises vnto the Lord, ye his Saintes, and giue thankes before the remembrance of his Holinesse.
Psalm 30:5	For he endureth but a while in his anger: but in his fauour is life: weeping may abide at euening, but ioy commeth in the morning.
Psalm 30:6	And in my prosperitie I sayde, I shall neuer be moued.
Psalm 30:7	For thou Lord of thy goodnes hadest made my mountaine to stande strong: but thou didest hide thy face, and I was troubled.
Psalm 30:8	Then cried I vnto thee, O Lord, and praied to my Lord.
Psalm 30:9	What profite is there in my blood, when I go downe to the pit? shall the dust giue thankes vnto thee? or shall it declare thy trueth?
Psalm 30:10	Heare, O Lord, and haue mercy vpon me: Lord, be thou mine helper.
Psalm 30:11	Thou hast turned my mourning into ioy: thou hast loosed my sacke and girded mee with gladnesse.
Psalm 30:12	Therefore shall my tongue praise thee and not cease: O Lord my God, I will giue thankes vnto thee for euer.
Psalm 31:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of David. In thee, O Lord, haue I put my trust: let mee neuer be confounded: deliuer me in thy righteousnesse.
Psalm 31:2	Bowe downe thine eare to me: make haste to deliuer mee: be vnto me a stronge rocke, and an house of defence to saue me.
Psalm 31:3	For thou art my rocke and my fortresse: therefore for thy Names sake direct mee and guide me.
Psalm 31:4	Drawe mee out of the nette, that they haue layde priuilie for mee: for thou art my strength.
Psalm 31:5	Into thine hand I commend my spirit: for thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of trueth.
Psalm 31:6	I haue hated them that giue them selues to deceitfull vanities: for I trust in the Lord.
Psalm 31:7	I wil be glad and reioyce in thy mercie: for thou hast seene my trouble: thou hast knowen my soule in aduersities,
Psalm 31:8	And thou hast not shut me vp in the hand of the enemie, but hast set my feete at large.
Psalm 31:9	Haue mercie vpon mee, O Lord: for I am in trouble: mine eye, my soule and my bellie are consumed with griefe.
Psalm 31:10	For my life is wasted with heauinesse, and my yeeres with mourning: my strength faileth for my paine, and my bones are consumed.
Psalm 31:11	I was a reproch among all mine enemies, but specially among my neighbours: and a feare to mine acquaintance, who seeing me in the streete, fled from me.
Psalm 31:12	I am forgotten, as a dead man out of minde: I am like a broken vessell.
Psalm 31:13	For I haue heard the rayling of great men: feare was on euery side, while they conspired together against mee, and consulted to take my life.
Psalm 31:14	But I trusted in thee, O Lord: I said, Thou art my God.
Psalm 31:15	My times are in thine hande: deliuer mee from the hande of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me.
Psalm 31:16	Make thy face to shine vpon thy seruant, and saue me through thy mercie.
Psalm 31:17	Let me not be confounded, O Lord: for I haue called vpon thee: let the wicked bee put to confusion, and to silence in the graue.
Psalm 31:18	Let the lying lips be made dumme, which cruelly, proudly and spitefully speake against the righteous.
Psalm 31:19	Howe great is thy goodnesse, which thou hast layde vp for them, that feare thee! and done to them, that trust in thee, euen before the sonnes of men!
Psalm 31:20	Thou doest hide them priuily in thy presence from the pride of men: thou keepest them secretly in thy Tabernacle from the strife of tongues.
Psalm 31:21	Blessed be the Lord: for hee hath shewed his marueilous kindenesse toward me in a strong citie.
Psalm 31:22	Though I said in mine haste, I am cast out of thy sight, yet thou heardest the voyce of my prayer, when I cryed vnto thee.
Psalm 31:23	Loue ye the Lord all his Saintes: for the Lord preserueth the faithfull, and rewardeth abundantly the proud doer.
Psalm 31:24	All ye that trust in the Lord, be strong, and he shall establish your heart.
Psalm 32:1	A Psalme of David to give instruction. Blessed is he whose wickednes is forgiuen, and whose sinne is couered.
Psalm 32:2	Blessed is the man, vnto whom the Lord imputeth not iniquitie, and in whose spirite there is no guile.
Psalm 32:3	When I helde my tongue, my bones consumed, or when I roared all the day,
Psalm 32:4	(For thine hand is heauie vpon me, day and night: and my moysture is turned into ye drought of summer. Selah)
Psalm 32:5	Then I acknowledged my sinne vnto thee, neither hid I mine iniquitie: for I thought, I will confesse against my selfe my wickednesse vnto the Lord, and thou forgauest the punishment of my sinne. Selah.
Psalm 32:6	Therefore shall euery one, that is godly, make his prayer vnto thee in a time, when thou mayest be founde: surely in the flood of great waters they shall not come neere him.
Psalm 32:7	Thou art my secret place: thou preseruest me from trouble: thou compassest me about with ioyfull deliuerance. Selah.
Psalm 32:8	I will instruct thee, and teache thee in the way that thou shalt goe, and I will guide thee with mine eye.
Psalm 32:9	Be ye not like an horse, or like a mule, which vnderstand not: whose mouthes thou doest binde with bit and bridle, least they come neere thee.
Psalm 32:10	Many sorowes shall come to the wicked: but he, that trusteth in the Lord, mercie shall compasse him.
Psalm 32:11	Be glad ye righteous, and reioyce in the Lord, and be ioyfull all ye, that are vpright in heart.
Psalm 33:1	Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous: for it becommeth vpright men to be thankefull.
Psalm 33:2	Prayse the Lord with harpe: sing vnto him with viole and instrument of ten strings.
Psalm 33:3	Sing vnto him a newe song: sing cheerefully with a loude voyce.
Psalm 33:4	For the word of the Lord is righteous, and all his workes are faithfull.
Psalm 33:5	He loueth righteousnesse and iudgement: the earth is full of the goodnesse of the Lord.
Psalm 33:6	By the worde of the Lord were the heauens made, and all the hoste of them by the breath of his mouth.
Psalm 33:7	He gathereth the waters of the sea together as vpon an heape, and layeth vp the depths in his treasures.
Psalm 33:8	Let all the earth feare the Lord: let al them that dwell in the world, feare him.
Psalm 33:9	For he spake, and it was done: he commanded, and it stood.
Psalm 33:10	The Lord breaketh the counsell of the heathen, and bringeth to nought the deuices of the people.
Psalm 33:11	The counsell of the Lord shall stand for euer, and the thoughts of his heart throughout all ages.
Psalm 33:12	Blessed is that nation, whose God is the Lord: euen the people that he hath chosen for his inheritance.
Psalm 33:13	The Lord looketh downe from heauen, and beholdeth all the children of men.
Psalm 33:14	From the habitation of his dwelling he beholdeth all them that dwell in the earth.
Psalm 33:15	He facioneth their hearts euery one, and vnderstandeth all their workes.
Psalm 33:16	The King is not saued by the multitude of an hoste, neither is the mightie man deliuered by great strength.
Psalm 33:17	A horse is a vaine helpe, and shall not deliuer any by his great strength.
Psalm 33:18	Beholde, the eye of the Lord is vpon them that feare him, and vpon them, that trust in his mercie,
Psalm 33:19	To deliuer their soules from death, and to preserue them in famine.
Psalm 33:20	Our soule waiteth for the Lord: for he is our helpe and our shielde.
Psalm 33:21	Surely our heart shall reioyce in him, because we trusted in his holy Name.
Psalm 33:22	Let thy mercie, O Lord, be vpon vs, as we trust in thee.
Psalm 34:1	A Psalme of Dauid, when he changed his behauiour before Abimelech, who droue him away, and he departed. I will alway giue thankes vnto the Lord: his praise shalbe in my mouth continually.
Psalm 34:2	My soule shall glory in the Lord: the humble shall heare it, and be glad.
Psalm 34:3	Praise ye the Lord with me, and let vs magnifie his Name together.
Psalm 34:4	I sought the Lord, and he heard me: yea, he deliuered me out of all my feare.
Psalm 34:5	They shall looke vnto him, and runne to him: and their faces shall not be ashamed, saying,
Psalm 34:6	This poore man cryed, and the Lord heard him, and saued him out of all his troubles.
Psalm 34:7	The Angel of the Lord pitcheth round about them, that feare him, and deliuereth them.
Psalm 34:8	Taste ye and see, howe gratious the Lord is: blessed is the man that trusteth in him.
Psalm 34:9	Feare the Lord, ye his Saintes: for nothing wanteth to them that feare him.
Psalm 34:10	The lyons doe lacke and suffer hunger, but they, which seeke the Lord, shall want nothing that is good.
Psalm 34:11	Come children, hearken vnto me: I will teache you the feare of the Lord.
Psalm 34:12	What man is he, that desireth life, and loueth long dayes for to see good?
Psalm 34:13	Keepe thy tongue from euill, and thy lips, that they speake no guile.
Psalm 34:14	Eschewe euill and doe good: seeke peace and follow after it.
Psalm 34:15	The eyes of the Lord are vpon the righteous, and his eares are open vnto their crie.
Psalm 34:16	But the face of the Lord is against them that doe euill, to cut off their remembrance from the earth.
Psalm 34:17	The righteous crie, and the Lord heareth them, and deliuereth them out of all their troubles.
Psalm 34:18	The Lord is neere vnto them that are of a contrite heart, and will saue such as be afflicted in Spirite.
Psalm 34:19	Great are the troubles of the righteous: but the Lord deliuereth him out of them all.
Psalm 34:20	He keepeth all his bones: not one of them is broken.
Psalm 34:21	But malice shall slay the wicked: and they that hate the righteous, shall perish.
Psalm 34:22	The Lord redeemeth the soules of his seruants: and none, that trust in him, shall perish.
Psalm 35:1	A Psalme of Dauid. Pleade thou my cause, O Lord, with them that striue with me: fight thou against them, that fight against me.
Psalm 35:2	Lay hand vpon the shielde and buckler, and stand vp for mine helpe.
Psalm 35:3	Bring out also the speare and stop the way against them, that persecute me: say vnto my soule, I am thy saluation.
Psalm 35:4	Let them be confounded and put to shame, that seeke after my soule: let them be turned backe, and brought to confusion, that imagine mine hurt.
Psalm 35:5	Let them be as chaffe before the winde, and let the Angel of the Lord scatter them.
Psalm 35:6	Let their way be darke and slipperie: and let the Angel of the Lord persecute them.
Psalm 35:7	For without cause they haue hid the pit and their net for me: without cause haue they digged a pit for my soule.
Psalm 35:8	Let destruction come vpon him at vnwares, and let his net, that he hath laid priuilie, take him: let him fall into the same destruction.
Psalm 35:9	Then my soule shalbe ioyfull in the Lord: it shall reioyce in his saluation.
Psalm 35:10	All my bones shall say, Lord, who is like vnto thee, which deliuerest the poore from him, that is too strong for him! yea, the poore and him that is in miserie, from him that spoyleth him!
Psalm 35:11	Cruell witnesses did rise vp: they asked of me things that I knewe not.
Psalm 35:12	They rewarded me euill for good, to haue spoyled my soule.
Psalm 35:13	Yet I, when they were sicke, I was clothed with a sacke: I humbled my soule with fasting: and my praier was turned vpon my bosome.
Psalm 35:14	I behaued my selfe as to my friend, or as to my brother: I humbled my selfe, mourning as one that bewaileth his mother.
Psalm 35:15	But in mine aduersitie they reioyced, and gathered them selues together: the abiects assembled themselues against me, and knewe not: they tare me and ceased not,
Psalm 35:16	With the false skoffers at bankets, gnashing their teeth against me.
Psalm 35:17	Lord, how long wilt thou beholde this? deliuer my soule from their tumult, euen my desolate soule from the lions.
Psalm 35:18	So will I giue thee thankes in a great Congregation: I will praise thee among much people.
Psalm 35:19	Let not them that are mine enemies, vniustly reioyce ouer mee, neyther let them winke with the eye, that hate mee without a cause.
Psalm 35:20	For they speake not as friendes: but they imagine deceitfull woordes against the quiet of the lande.
Psalm 35:21	And they gaped on mee with their mouthes, saying, Aha, aha, our eye hath seene.
Psalm 35:22	Thou hast seene it, O Lord: keepe not silence: be not farre from me, O Lord.
Psalm 35:23	Arise and wake to my iudgement, euen to my cause, my God, and my Lord.
Psalm 35:24	Iudge me, O Lord my God, according to thy righteousnesse, and let them not reioyce ouer mee.
Psalm 35:25	Let them not say in their hearts, O our soule reioyce: neither let them say, We haue deuoured him.
Psalm 35:26	Let them bee confounded, and put to shame together, that reioyce at mine hurt: let them bee clothed with confusion and shame, that lift vp themselues against me.
Psalm 35:27	But let them be ioyful and glad, that loue my righteousnesse: yea, let them say alway, Let the Lord be magnified, which loueth the prosperitie of his seruant.
Psalm 35:28	And my tongue shall vtter thy righteousnesse, and thy praise euery day.
Psalm 36:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of Dauid, the servant of the Lord. Wickedness sayeth to the wicked man, euen in mine heart, that there is no feare of God before his eyes.
Psalm 36:2	For hee flattereth himselfe in his owne eyes, while his iniquitie is foud worthy to be hated.
Psalm 36:3	The wordes of his mouth are iniquitie and deceit: hee hath left off to vnderstand and to doe good.
Psalm 36:4	Hee imagineth mischiefe vpon his bed: he setteth himselfe vpon a way, that is not good, and doeth not abhorre euill.
Psalm 36:5	Thy mercy, O Lord, reacheth vnto the heauens, and thy faithfulnesse vnto the cloudes.
Psalm 36:6	Thy righteousnesse is like the mightie moutaines: thy iudgements are like a great deepe: thou, Lord, doest saue man and beast.
Psalm 36:7	How excellent is thy mercy, O God! therefore the children of men trust vnder the shadowe of thy wings.
Psalm 36:8	They shall be satisfied with the fatnesse of thine house, and thou shalt giue them drinke out of the riuer of thy pleasures.
Psalm 36:9	For with thee is the well of life, and in thy light shall we see light.
Psalm 36:10	Extend thy louing kindnes vnto them that knowe thee, and thy righteousnesse vnto them that are vpright in heart.
Psalm 36:11	Let not ye foote of pride come against me, and let not the hand of ye wicked men moue me.
Psalm 36:12	There they are fallen that worke iniquity: they are cast downe, and shall not be able to rise.
Psalm 37:1	A Psalme of David. Fret not thy selfe because of the wicked men, neither be enuious for the euill doers.
Psalm 37:2	For they shall soone bee cut downe like grasse, and shall wither as the greene herbe.
Psalm 37:3	Trust thou in the Lord and do good: dwell in the land, and thou shalt be fed assuredly.
Psalm 37:4	And delite thy selfe in the Lord, and hee shall giue thee thine hearts desire.
Psalm 37:5	Commit thy way vnto the Lord, and trust in him, and he shall bring it to passe.
Psalm 37:6	And he shall bring foorth thy righteousnes as the light, and thy iudgement as the noone day.
Psalm 37:7	Waite patiently vpon the Lord and hope in him: fret not thy selfe for him which prospereth in his way: nor for the man that bringeth his enterprises to passe.
Psalm 37:8	Cease from anger, and leaue off wrath: fret not thy selfe also to doe euill.
Psalm 37:9	For euill doers shalbe cut off, and they that wait vpon the Lord, they shall inherite the land.
Psalm 37:10	Therefore yet a litle while, and the wicked shall not appeare, and thou shalt looke after his place, and he shall not be found.
Psalm 37:11	But meeke men shall possesse the earth, and shall haue their delite in the multitude of peace.
Psalm 37:12	The wicked practiseth against the iust, and gnasheth his teeth against him.
Psalm 37:13	But the Lord shall laugh him to scorne: for he seeth, that his day is comming.
Psalm 37:14	The wicked haue drawen their sworde, and haue bent their bowe, to cast downe the poore and needie, and to slay such as be of vpright conuersation.
Psalm 37:15	But their sword shall enter into their owne heart, and their bowes shalbe broken.
Psalm 37:16	A small thing vnto the iust man is better, then great riches to the wicked and mightie.
Psalm 37:17	For the armes of the wicked shall be broken: but the Lord vpholdeth the iust men.
Psalm 37:18	The Lord knoweth the dayes of vpright men, and their inheritance shall bee perpetuall.
Psalm 37:19	They shall not be confounded in the perilous time, and in the daies of famine they shall haue ynough.
Psalm 37:20	But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the Lord shall be consumed as the fatte of lambes: euen with the smoke shall they consume away.
Psalm 37:21	The wicked boroweth and payeth not againe. but the righteous is mercifull, and giueth.
Psalm 37:22	For such as be blessed of God, shall inherite the lande, and they that be cursed of him, shalbe cut off.
Psalm 37:23	The pathes of man are directed by the Lord: for he loueth his way.
Psalm 37:24	Though he fall, hee shall not be cast off: for the Lord putteth vnder his hand.
Psalm 37:25	I haue beene yong, and am olde: yet I sawe neuer the righteous forsaken, nor his seede begging bread.
Psalm 37:26	But hee is euer mercifull and lendeth, and his seede enioyeth the blessing.
Psalm 37:27	Flee from euill and doe good, and dwell for euer.
Psalm 37:28	For the Lord loueth iudgement, and forsaketh not his Saintes: they shall be preserued for euermore: but the seede of the wicked shall be cut off.
Psalm 37:29	The righteous men shall inherit the lande, and dwell therein for euer.
Psalm 37:30	The mouth of the righteous will speake of wisedome, and his tongue will talke of iudgement.
Psalm 37:31	For the Lawe of his God is in his heart, and his steppes shall not slide.
Psalm 37:32	The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him.
Psalm 37:33	But the Lord wil not leaue him in his hand, nor condemne him, when he is iudged.
Psalm 37:34	Waite thou on the Lord, and keepe his way, and he shall exalt thee, that thou shalt inherite the lande: when the wicked men shall perish, thou shalt see.
Psalm 37:35	I haue seene the wicked strong, and spreading himselfe like a greene bay tree.
Psalm 37:36	Yet he passed away, and loe, he was gone, and I sought him, but he could not be founde.
Psalm 37:37	Marke the vpright man, and beholde the iust: for the end of that man is peace.
Psalm 37:38	But the transgressours shall be destroyed together, and the ende of the wicked shall bee cut off.
Psalm 37:39	But the saluation of the righteous men shalbe of the Lord: he shalbe their strength in the time of trouble.
Psalm 37:40	For the Lord shall helpe them, and deliuer them: he shall deliuer them from the wicked, and shall saue them, because they trust in him.
Psalm 38:1	A Psalme of Dauid for remembrance. O Lord, rebuke mee not in thine anger, neither chastise me in thy wrath.
Psalm 38:2	For thine arrowes haue light vpon me, and thine hand lyeth vpon me.
Psalm 38:3	There is nothing sound in my flesh, because of thine anger: neither is there rest in my bones because of my sinne.
Psalm 38:4	For mine iniquities are gone ouer mine head, and as a weightie burden they are too heauie for me.
Psalm 38:5	My woundes are putrified, and corrupt because of my foolishnes.
Psalm 38:6	I am bowed, and crooked very sore: I goe mourning all the day.
Psalm 38:7	For my reines are full of burning, and there is nothing sound in my flesh.
Psalm 38:8	I am weakened and sore broken: I roare for the very griefe of mine heart.
Psalm 38:9	Lord, I powre my whole desire before thee, and my sighing is not hid from thee.
Psalm 38:10	Mine heart panteth: my strength faileth me, and the light of mine eyes, euen they are not mine owne.
Psalm 38:11	My louers and my friends stand aside from my plague, and my kinsmen stand a farre off.
Psalm 38:12	They also, that seeke after my life, laye snares, and they that go about to do me euil, talke wicked things and imagine deceite continually.
Psalm 38:13	But I as a deafe man heard not, and am as a dumme man, which openeth not his mouth.
Psalm 38:14	Thus am I as a man, that heareth not, and in whose mouth are no reproofes.
Psalm 38:15	For on thee, O Lord, do I waite: thou wilt heare me, my Lord, my God.
Psalm 38:16	For I said, Heare me, least they reioyce ouer me: for when my foote slippeth, they extol themselues against me.
Psalm 38:17	Surely I am ready to halte, and my sorow is euer before me.
Psalm 38:18	When I declare my paine, and am sory for my sinne,
Psalm 38:19	Then mine enemies are aliue and are mightie, and they that hate me wrongfully are many.
Psalm 38:20	They also, that rewarde euill for good, are mine aduersaries, because I follow goodnesse.
Psalm 38:21	Forsake me not, O Lord: be not thou farre from me, my God.
Psalm 38:22	Haste thee to helpe mee, O my Lord, my saluation.
Psalm 39:1	To the excellent musician Ieduthun. I thought, I will take heede to my wayes, that I sinne not with my tongue: I will keepe my mouth brideled, while the wicked is in my sight.
Psalm 39:2	I was dumme and spake nothing: I kept silece euen from good, and my sorow was more stirred.
Psalm 39:3	Mine heart was hote within me, and while I was musing, the fire kindeled, and I spake with my tongue, saying,
Psalm 39:4	Lord, let me know mine ende, and the measure of my dayes, what it is: let mee knowe howe long I haue to liue.
Psalm 39:5	Beholde, thou hast made my dayes as an hand breadth, and mine age as nothing in respect of thee: surely euery man in his best state is altogether vanitie. Selah.
Psalm 39:6	Doubtlesse man walketh in a shadowe, and disquieteth himselfe in vaine: he heapeth vp riches, and cannot tell who shall gather them.
Psalm 39:7	And now Lord, what wait I for? mine hope is euen in thee.
Psalm 39:8	Deliuer me from all my transgressions, and make me not a rebuke vnto the foolish.
Psalm 39:9	I should haue bene dumme, and not haue opened my mouth, because thou didest it.
Psalm 39:10	Take thy plague away from mee: for I am consumed by the stroke of thine hand.
Psalm 39:11	When thou with rebukes doest chastise man for iniquitie, thou as a mothe makest his beautie to consume: surely euery man is vanitie. Selah.
Psalm 39:12	Heare my prayer, O Lord, and hearken vnto my cry: keepe not silence at my teares, for I am a strager with thee, and a soiourner as all my fathers.
Psalm 39:13	Stay thine anger from me, that I may recouer my strength, before I go hence and be not.
Psalm 40:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of David. I Waited paciently for the Lord, and he inclined vnto me, and heard my cry.
Psalm 40:2	Hee brought mee also out of the horrible pit, out of the myrie clay, and set my feete vpon the rocke, and ordered my goings.
Psalm 40:3	And he hath put in my mouth a new song of praise vnto our God: many shall see it and feare, and shall trust in the Lord.
Psalm 40:4	Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust, and regardeth not the proude, nor such as turne aside to lyes.
Psalm 40:5	O Lord my God, thou hast made thy wonderfull workes so many, that none can count in order to thee thy thoughts toward vs: I would declare, and speake of them, but they are moe then I am able to expresse.
Psalm 40:6	Sacrifice and offering thou didest not desire: (for mine eares hast thou prepared) burnt offring and sinne offering hast thou not required.
Psalm 40:7	Then said I, Lo, I come: for in the rolle of the booke it is written of me,
Psalm 40:8	I desired to doe thy good will, O my God: yea, thy Lawe is within mine heart.
Psalm 40:9	I haue declared thy righteousnesse in the great Congregation: loe, I will not refraine my lippes: O Lord, thou knowest.
Psalm 40:10	I haue not hidde thy righteousnesse within mine heart, but I haue declared thy trueth and thy saluation: I haue not conceiled thy mercy and thy trueth from the great Congregation.
Psalm 40:11	Withdrawe not thou thy tender mercie from mee, O Lord: let thy mercie and thy trueth alway preserue me.
Psalm 40:12	For innumerable troubles haue compassed mee: my sinnes haue taken such holde vpon me, that I am not able to looke vp: yea, they are moe in nomber then the heares of mine head: therefore mine heart hath failed me.
Psalm 40:13	Let it please thee, O Lord, to deliuer mee: make haste, O Lord, to helpe me.
Psalm 40:14	Let them be confounded and put to shame together, that seeke my soule to destroye it: let them be driuen backward and put to rebuke, that desire mine hurt.
Psalm 40:15	Let them be destroyed for a rewarde of their shame, which say vnto me, Aha, aha.
Psalm 40:16	Let all them, that seeke thee, reioyce and be glad in thee: and let them, that loue thy saluation, say alway, The Lord be praysed.
Psalm 40:17	Though I be poore and needie, the Lord thinketh on mee: thou art mine helper and my deliuerer: my God, make no tarying.
Psalm 41:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of Dauid. Blessed is he that iudgeth wisely of the poore: the Lord shall deliuer him in ye time of trouble.
Psalm 41:2	The Lord will keepe him, and preserue him aliue: he shalbe blessed vpon the earth, and thou wilt not deliuer him vnto the will of his enemies.
Psalm 41:3	The Lord wil strengthen him vpon ye bed of sorow: thou hast turned al his bed in his sicknes.
Psalm 41:4	Therefore I saide, Lord haue mercie vpon me: heale my soule, for I haue sinned against thee.
Psalm 41:5	Mine enemies speake euill of me, saying, When shall he die, and his name perish?
Psalm 41:6	And if hee come to see mee, hee speaketh lies, but his heart heapeth iniquitie within him, and when he commeth foorth, he telleth it.
Psalm 41:7	All they that hate me, whisper together against me: euen against me do they imagine mine hurt.
Psalm 41:8	A mischiefe is light vpon him, and he that lyeth, shall no more rise.
Psalm 41:9	Yea, my familiar friend, whom I trusted, which did eate of my bread, hath lifted vp the heele against me.
Psalm 41:10	Therefore, O Lord, haue mercy vpon mee, and raise me vp: so I shall reward them.
Psalm 41:11	By this I know that thou fauourest me, because mine enemie doth not triumph against me.
Psalm 41:12	And as for me, thou vpholdest me in mine integritie, and doest set me before thy face for euer.
Psalm 41:13	Blessed be the Lord God of Israel worlde without ende. So be it, euen so be it.
Psalm 42:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme to give instruction, committed to the sonnes of Korah. As the harte brayeth for the riuers of water, so panteth my soule after thee, O God.
Psalm 42:2	My soule thirsteth for God, euen for the liuing God: when shall I come and appeare before the presence of God?
Psalm 42:3	My teares haue bin my meate day and night, while they dayly say vnto me, Where is thy God?
Psalm 42:4	When I remembred these things, I powred out my very heart, because I had gone with the multitude, and ledde them into the House of God with the voyce of singing, and prayse, as a multitude that keepeth a feast.
Psalm 42:5	Why art thou cast downe, my soule, and vnquiet within me? waite on God: for I will yet giue him thankes for the helpe of his presence.
Psalm 42:6	My God, my soule is cast downe within me, because I remember thee, from the land of Iorden, and Hermonim, and from the mount Mizar.
Psalm 42:7	One deepe calleth another deepe by the noyse of thy water spoutes: all thy waues and thy floods are gone ouer me.
Psalm 42:8	The Lord will graunt his louing kindenesse in the day, and in the night shall I sing of him, euen a prayer vnto the God of my life.
Psalm 42:9	I wil say vnto God, which is my rocke, Why hast thou forgotten mee? why goe I mourning, when the enemie oppresseth me?
Psalm 42:10	My bones are cut asunder, while mine enemies reproch me, saying dayly vnto me, Where is thy God?
Psalm 42:11	Why art thou cast downe, my soule? and why art thou disquieted within mee? waite on God: for I wil yet giue him thankes: he is my present helpe, and my God.
Psalm 43:1	Judge me, O God, and defend my cause against the vnmercifull people: deliuer mee from the deceitfull and wicked man.
Psalm 43:2	For thou art the God of my strength: why hast thou put me away? why goe I so mourning, when the enemie oppresseth me?
Psalm 43:3	Sende thy light and thy trueth: let them leade mee: let them bring mee vnto thine holy Mountaine and to thy Tabernacles.
Psalm 43:4	Then wil I go vnto the altar of God, euen vnto the God of my ioy and gladnes: and vpon the harpe wil I giue thanks vnto thee, O God, my God.
Psalm 43:5	Why art thou cast downe, my soule? and why art thou disquieted within mee? waite on God: for I will yet giue him thankes, he is my present helpe, and my God.
Psalm 44:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme to give instruction, committed to the sonnes of Korah. We haue heard with our eares, O God: our fathers haue tolde vs the workes, that thou hast done in their dayes, in the olde time:
Psalm 44:2	Howe thou hast driuen out the heathen with thine hand, and planted them: how thou hast destroyed the people, and caused them to grow.
Psalm 44:3	For they inherited not the lande by their owne sworde, neither did their owne arme saue them: but thy right hand, and thine arme and the light of thy countenance, because thou didest fauour them.
Psalm 44:4	Thou art my King, O God: send helpe vnto Iaakob.
Psalm 44:5	Through thee haue we thrust backe our aduersaries: by thy Name haue we troden downe them that rose vp against vs.
Psalm 44:6	For I do not trust in my bowe, neither can my sworde saue me.
Psalm 44:7	But thou hast saued vs from our aduersaries, and hast put them to confusion that hate vs.
Psalm 44:8	Therefore will wee praise God continually, and will confesse thy Name for euer. Selah.
Psalm 44:9	But now thou art farre off, and puttest vs to confusion, and goest not forth with our armies.
Psalm 44:10	Thou makest vs to turne backe from the aduersary, and they, which hate vs, spoile for theselues.
Psalm 44:11	Thou giuest vs as sheepe to bee eaten, and doest scatter vs among the nations.
Psalm 44:12	Thou sellest thy people without gaine, and doest not increase their price.
Psalm 44:13	Thou makest vs a reproche to our neighbours, a iest and a laughing stocke to them that are round about vs.
Psalm 44:14	Thou makest vs a prouerbe among the nations, and a nodding of the head among the people.
Psalm 44:15	My confusion is dayly before me, and the shame of my face hath couered me,
Psalm 44:16	For the voyce of the slaunderer and rebuker, for the enemie and auenger.
Psalm 44:17	All this is come vpon vs, yet doe wee not forget thee, neither deale wee falsly concerning thy couenant.
Psalm 44:18	Our heart is not turned backe: neither our steps gone out of thy paths,
Psalm 44:19	Albeit thou hast smitten vs downe into the place of dragons, and couered vs with the shadow of death.
Psalm 44:20	If wee haue forgotten the Name of our God, and holden vp our hands to a strange god,
Psalm 44:21	Shall not God searche this out? for hee knoweth the secrets of the heart.
Psalm 44:22	Surely for thy sake are we slaine continually, and are counted as sheepe for the slaughter.
Psalm 44:23	Vp, why sleepest thou, O Lord? awake, be not farre off for euer.
Psalm 44:24	Wherefore hidest thou thy face? and forgettest our miserie and our affliction?
Psalm 44:25	For our soule is beaten downe vnto the dust: our belly cleaueth vnto the ground.
Psalm 44:26	Rise vp for our succour, and redeeme vs for thy mercies sake.
Psalm 45:1	To him that excelleth on Shoshannim a song of love to give instruction, committed to the sonnes of Korah. Mine heart will vtter forth a good matter: I wil intreat in my workes of the King: my tongue is as the pen of a swift writer.
Psalm 45:2	Thou art fayrer then the children of men: grace is powred in thy lips, because God hath blessed thee for euer.
Psalm 45:3	Gird thy sword vpon thy thigh, O most mightie, to wit, thy worship and thy glory,
Psalm 45:4	And prosper with thy glory: ride vpon the worde of trueth and of meekenes and of righteousnes: so thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things.
Psalm 45:5	Thine arrowes are sharpe to pearce the heart of the Kings enemies: therefore the people shall fall vnder thee.
Psalm 45:6	Thy throne, O God, is for euer and euer: the scepter of thy kingdome is a scepter of righteousnesse.
Psalm 45:7	Thou louest righteousnes, and hatest wickednesse, because God, euen thy God hath anoynted thee with the oyle of gladnes aboue thy fellowes.
Psalm 45:8	All thy garments smelll of myrrhe and aloes, and cassia, when thou commest out of the yuorie palaces, where they haue made thee glad.
Psalm 45:9	Kings daugthers were among thine honorable wiues: vpon thy right hand did stand the Queene in a vesture of golde of Ophir.
Psalm 45:10	Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine eare: forget also thine owne people and thy fathers house.
Psalm 45:11	So shall the King haue pleasure in thy beautie: for he is thy Lord, and reuerence thou him.
Psalm 45:12	And the daughter of Tyrus with the rich of the people shall doe homage before thy face with presents.
Psalm 45:13	The Kings daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of broydred golde.
Psalm 45:14	She shalbe brought vnto the King in raiment of needle worke: the virgins that follow after her, and her companions shall be brought vnto thee.
Psalm 45:15	With ioy and gladnes shall they be brought, and shall enter into the Kings palace.
Psalm 45:16	In steade of thy fathers shall thy children be: thou shalt make them princes through all the earth.
Psalm 45:17	I will make thy Name to be remembred through all generations: therefore shall the people giue thanks vnto thee world without ende.
Psalm 46:1	To him that excelleth upon Alamoth a song committed to the sonnes of Korah. God is our hope and strength, and helpe in troubles, ready to be found.
Psalm 46:2	Therefore will not we feare, though the earth be moued, and though the mountaines fall into the middes of the sea.
Psalm 46:3	Though the waters thereof rage and be troubled, and the mountaines shake at the surges of the same. Selah,
Psalm 46:4	Yet there is a Riuer, whose streames shall make glad the citie of God: euen the Sanctuarie of the Tabernacles of the most High.
Psalm 46:5	God is in the middes of it: therefore shall it not be moued: God shall helpe it very earely.
Psalm 46:6	When the nations raged, and the kingdomes were moued, God thundred, and the earth melted.
Psalm 46:7	The Lord of hostes is with vs: the God of Iaakob is our refuge. Selah.
Psalm 46:8	Come, and behold the workes of the Lord, what desolations he hath made in the earth.
Psalm 46:9	He maketh warres to cease vnto the endes of the world: he breaketh the bowe and cutteth the speare, and burneth the chariots with fire.
Psalm 46:10	Be still and knowe that I am God: I will be exalted among the heathen, and I wil be exalted in the earth.
Psalm 46:11	The Lord of hostes is with vs: the God of Iaakob is our refuge. Selah.
Psalm 47:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme committed to the sonnes of Korah. All people clap your hands: sing loude vnto God with a ioyfull voyce.
Psalm 47:2	For the Lord is high, and terrible: a great King ouer all the earth.
Psalm 47:3	He hath subdued the people vnder vs, and the nations vnder our feete.
Psalm 47:4	Hee hath chosen our inheritance for vs: euen the glory of Iaakob whom he loued. Selah.
Psalm 47:5	God is gone vp with triumph, euen the Lord, with the sound of the trumpet.
Psalm 47:6	Sing prayses to God, sing prayses: sing prayses vnto our King, sing prayses.
Psalm 47:7	For God is the King of all the earth: sing prayses euery one that hath vnderstanding.
Psalm 47:8	God reigneth ouer the heathen: God sitteth vpon his holy throne.
Psalm 47:9	The princes of the people are gathered vnto the people of the God of Abraham: for the shields of the world belong to God: he is greatly to be exalted.
Psalm 48:1	A song or Psalme committed to the sonnes of Korah. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praysed, in the Citie of our God, euen vpon his holy Mountaine.
Psalm 48:2	Mount Zion, lying Northwarde, is faire in situation: it is the ioy of the whole earth, and the Citie of the great King.
Psalm 48:3	In the palaces thereof God is knowen for a refuge.
Psalm 48:4	For lo, the Kings were gathered, and went together.
Psalm 48:5	When they sawe it, they marueiled: they were astonied, and suddenly driuen backe.
Psalm 48:6	Feare came there vpon them, and sorowe, as vpon a woman in trauaile.
Psalm 48:7	As with an East winde thou breakest the shippes of Tarshish, so were they destroyed.
Psalm 48:8	As we haue heard, so haue we seene in the citie of the Lord of hostes, in the Citie of our God: God will stablish it for euer. Selah.
Psalm 48:9	We waite for thy louing kindnes, O God, in the middes of thy Temple.
Psalm 48:10	O God, according vnto thy Name, so is thy prayse vnto the worlds end: thy right hand is full of righteousnes.
Psalm 48:11	Let mount Zion reioyce, and the daughters of Iudah be glad, because of thy iudgements.
Psalm 48:12	Compasse about Zion, and goe round about it, and tell the towres thereof.
Psalm 48:13	Marke well the wall thereof: beholde her towres, that ye may tell your posteritie.
Psalm 48:14	For this God is our God for euer and euer: he shall be our guide vnto the death.
Psalm 49:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme committed to the sonnes of Korah. Heare this, all ye people: giue eare, all ye that dwell in the world,
Psalm 49:2	As well lowe as hie, both rich and poore.
Psalm 49:3	My mouth shall speake of wisdome, and the meditation of mine heart is of knowledge.
Psalm 49:4	I will incline mine eare to a parable, and vtter my graue matter vpon the harpe.
Psalm 49:5	Wherefore should I feare in the euil dayes, when iniquitie shall compasse me about, as at mine heeles?
Psalm 49:6	They trust in their goods, and boast them selues in the multitude of their riches.
Psalm 49:7	Yet a man can by no meanes redeeme his brother: he can not giue his raunsome to God,
Psalm 49:8	(So precious is the redemption of their soules, and the continuance for euer)
Psalm 49:9	That he may liue still for euer, and not see the graue.
Psalm 49:10	For he seeth that wise men die, and also that the ignorant and foolish perish, and leaue their riches for others.
Psalm 49:11	Yet they thinke, their houses, and their habitations shall continue for euer, euen from generation to generation, and call their lands by their names.
Psalm 49:12	But man shall not continue in honour: he is like the beastes that die.
Psalm 49:13	This their way vttereth their foolishnes: yet their posteritie delite in their talke. Selah.
Psalm 49:14	Like sheepe they lie in graue: death deuoureth them, and the righteous shall haue domination ouer them in the morning: for their beautie shall consume, when they shall goe from their house to graue.
Psalm 49:15	But God shall deliuer my soule from the power of the graue: for he will receiue me. Selah.
Psalm 49:16	Be not thou afrayd when one is made rich, and when the glory of his house is increased.
Psalm 49:17	For he shall take nothing away when he dieth, neither shall his pompe descende after him.
Psalm 49:18	For while he liued, he reioyced himselfe: and men will prayse thee, when thou makest much of thy selfe.
Psalm 49:19	He shall enter into the generation of his fathers, and they shall not liue for euer.
Psalm 49:20	Man is in honour, and vnderstandeth not: he is like to beasts that perish.
Psalm 50:1	A Psalme of Asaph. The God of Gods, euen the Lord hath spoken and called the earth from the rising vp of the sunne vnto the going downe thereof.
Psalm 50:2	Out of Zion, which is the perfection of beautie, hath God shined.
Psalm 50:3	Our God shall come and shall not keepe silence: a fire shall deuoure before him, and a mightie tempest shall be mooued round about him.
Psalm 50:4	Hee shall call the heauen aboue, and the earth to iudge his people.
Psalm 50:5	Gather my Saints together vnto me, those that make a couenant with me with sacrifice.
Psalm 50:6	And the heauens shall declare his righteousnes: for God is iudge himselfe. Selah.
Psalm 50:7	Heare, O my people, and I wil speake: heare, O Israel, and I wil testifie vnto thee: for I am God, euen thy God.
Psalm 50:8	I wil not reproue thee for thy sacrifices, or thy burnt offerings, that haue not bene continually before me.
Psalm 50:9	I will take no bullocke out of thine house, nor goates out of thy foldes.
Psalm 50:10	For all the beastes of the forest are mine, and the beastes on a thousand mountaines.
Psalm 50:11	I knowe all the foules on the mountaines: and the wilde beastes of the fielde are mine.
Psalm 50:12	If I bee hungry, I will not tell thee: for the world is mine, and all that therein is.
Psalm 50:13	Will I eate the flesh of bulles? or drinke the blood of goates?
Psalm 50:14	Offer vnto God praise, and pay thy vowes vnto the most High,
Psalm 50:15	And call vpon me in the day of trouble: so will I deliuer thee, and thou shalt glorifie me.
Psalm 50:16	But vnto the wicked said God, What hast thou to doe to declare mine ordinances, that thou shouldest take my couenant in thy mouth,
Psalm 50:17	Seeing thou hatest to bee reformed, and hast cast my wordes behinde thee?
Psalm 50:18	For when thou seest a thiefe, thou runnest with him, and thou art partaker with the adulterers.
Psalm 50:19	Thou giuest thy mouth to euill, and with thy tongue thou forgest deceit.
Psalm 50:20	Thou sittest, and speakest against thy brother, and slanderest thy mothers sonne.
Psalm 50:21	These things hast thou done, and I held my tongue: therefore thou thoughtest that I was like thee: but I will reproue thee, and set them in order before thee.
Psalm 50:22	Oh cosider this, ye that forget God, least I teare you in pieces, and there be none that can deliuer you.
Psalm 50:23	He that offereth praise, shall glorifie mee: and to him, that disposeth his way aright, will I shew the saluation of God.
Psalm 51:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of David, when the Prophet Nathan came unto him, after he had gone in to Bath-sheba. Have mercie vpon me, O God, according to thy louing kindnes: according to the multitude of thy compassions put away mine iniquities.
Psalm 51:2	Wash me throughly from mine iniquitie, and clense me from my sinne.
Psalm 51:3	For I know mine iniquities, and my sinne is euer before me.
Psalm 51:4	Against thee, against thee onely haue I sinned, and done euill in thy sight, that thou mayest be iust when thou speakest, and pure when thou iudgest.
Psalm 51:5	Beholde, I was borne in iniquitie, and in sinne hath my mother conceiued me.
Psalm 51:6	Beholde, thou louest trueth in the inwarde affections: therefore hast thou taught mee wisedome in the secret of mine heart.
Psalm 51:7	Purge me with hyssope, and I shalbe cleane: wash me, and I shalbe whiter then snowe.
Psalm 51:8	Make me to heare ioye and gladnes, that the bones, which thou hast broken, may reioyce.
Psalm 51:9	Hide thy face from my sinnes, and put away all mine iniquities.
Psalm 51:10	Create in mee a cleane heart, O God, and renue a right spirit within me.
Psalm 51:11	Cast mee not away from thy presence, and take not thine holy Spirit from me.
Psalm 51:12	Restore to me the ioy of thy saluation, and stablish me with thy free Spirit.
Psalm 51:13	Then shall I teache thy wayes vnto the wicked, and sinners shalbe conuerted vnto thee.
Psalm 51:14	Deliuer me from blood, O God, which art the God of my saluation, and my tongue shall sing ioyfully of thy righteousnes.
Psalm 51:15	Open thou my lippes, O Lord, and my mouth shall shewe foorth thy praise.
Psalm 51:16	For thou desirest no sacrifice, though I would giue it: thou delitest not in burnt offering.
Psalm 51:17	The sacrifices of God are a contrite spirit: a contrite and a broken heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.
Psalm 51:18	Bee fauourable vnto Zion for thy good pleasure: builde the walles of Ierusalem.
Psalm 51:19	Then shalt thou accept ye sacrifices of righteousnes, euen the burnt offering and oblation: then shall they offer calues vpon thine altar.
Psalm 52:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of Dauid to giue instruction. When Doeg the Edomite came and shewed Saul, and saide to him, Dauid is come to the house of Abimelech. Why boastest thou thy selfe in thy wickednesse, O man of power? the louing kindenesse of God indureth dayly.
Psalm 52:2	Thy tongue imagineth mischiefe, and is like a sharpe rasor, that cutteth deceitfully.
Psalm 52:3	Thou doest loue euill more then good, and lies more then to speake the trueth. Selah.
Psalm 52:4	Thou louest all wordes that may destroye, O deceitfull tongue!
Psalm 52:5	So shall God destroy thee for euer: he shall take thee and plucke thee out of thy tabernacle, and roote thee out of ye land of the liuing. Selah.
Psalm 52:6	The righteous also shall see it, and feare, and shall laugh at him, saying,
Psalm 52:7	Beholde the man that tooke not God for his strength, but trusted vnto the multitude of his riches, and put his strength in his malice.
Psalm 52:8	But I shall bee like a greene oliue tree in the house of God: for I trusted in the mercie of God for euer and euer.
Psalm 52:9	I will alway praise thee, for that thou hast done this, and I will hope in thy Name, because it is good before thy Saints.
Psalm 53:1	To him that excelleth on Mahalath. A Psalme of David to give instruction. The foole hath saide in his heart, There is no God. they haue corrupted and done abominable wickednes: there is none that doeth good.
Psalm 53:2	God looked downe from heauen vpon the children of men, to see if there were any that would vnderstand, and seeke God.
Psalm 53:3	Euery one is gone backe: they are altogether corrupt: there is none that doth good, no not one.
Psalm 53:4	Doe not the workers of iniquitie knowe that they eate vp my people as they eate bread? they call not vpon God.
Psalm 53:5	There they were afraide for feare, where no feare was: for God hath scattered the bones of him that besieged thee: thou hast put them to confusion, because God hath cast them off.
Psalm 53:6	Oh giue saluation vnto Israel out of Zion: when God turneth the captiuitie of his people, then Iaakob shall reioyce, and Israel shalbe glad.
Psalm 54:1	To him that excelleth on Neginoth. A Psalme of David, to give instruction. When the Ziphims came and said unto Saul, Is not David hid among us? Save mee, O God, by thy Name, and by thy power iudge me.
Psalm 54:2	O God, heare my prayer: hearken vnto the wordes of my mouth.
Psalm 54:3	For strangers are risen vp against me, and tyrants seeke my soule: they haue not set God before them. Selah.
Psalm 54:4	Beholde, God is mine helper: the Lord is with them that vpholde my soule.
Psalm 54:5	He shall rewarde euill vnto mine enemies: Oh cut them off in thy trueth!
Psalm 54:6	Then I will sacrifice freely vnto thee: I wil praise thy Name, O Lord, because it is good.
Psalm 54:7	For he hath deliuered me out of al trouble, and mine eye hath seene my desire vpon mine enemies.
Psalm 55:1	To him that excelleth on Neginoth. A Psalme of David to give instruction. Heare my prayer, O God, and hide not thy selfe from my supplication.
Psalm 55:2	Hearken vnto me, and answere me: I mourne in my prayer, and make a noyse,
Psalm 55:3	For the voyce of the enemie, and for the vexation of ye wicked, because they haue brought iniquitie vpon me, and furiously hate me.
Psalm 55:4	Mine heart trembleth within mee, and the terrours of death are fallen vpon me.
Psalm 55:5	Feare and trembling are come vpon mee, and an horrible feare hath couered me.
Psalm 55:6	And I said, Oh that I had wings like a doue: then would I flie away and rest.
Psalm 55:7	Beholde, I woulde take my flight farre off, and lodge in the wildernes. Selah.
Psalm 55:8	Hee would make haste for my deliuerance from the stormie winde and tempest.
Psalm 55:9	Destroy, O Lord, and deuide their tongues: for I haue seene crueltie and strife in the citie.
Psalm 55:10	Day and night they goe about it vpon the walles thereof: both iniquitie and mischiefe are in the middes of it.
Psalm 55:11	Wickednes is in the middes thereof: deceit and guile depart not from her streetes.
Psalm 55:12	Surely mine enemie did not defame mee: for I could haue borne it: neither did mine aduersarie exalt himselfe against mee: for I would haue hid me from him.
Psalm 55:13	But it was thou, O man, euen my companion, my guide and my familiar:
Psalm 55:14	Which delited in consulting together, and went into the House of God as companions.
Psalm 55:15	Let death sense vpon them: let them goe downe quicke into the graue: for wickednes is in their dwellings, euen in the middes of them.
Psalm 55:16	But I will call vnto God, and the Lord will saue me.
Psalm 55:17	Euening and morning, and at noone will I pray, and make a noyse, and he wil heare my voice.
Psalm 55:18	He hath deliuered my soule in peace from the battel, that was against me: for many were with me.
Psalm 55:19	God shall heare and afflict them, euen hee that reigneth of olde, Selah. because they haue no changes, therefore they feare not God.
Psalm 55:20	Hee layed his hande vpon such, as be at peace with him, and he brake his couenant.
Psalm 55:21	The wordes of his mouth were softer then butter, yet warre was in his heart: his words were more gentle then oyle, yet they were swordes.
Psalm 55:22	Cast thy burden vpon the Lord, and hee shall nourish thee: he wil not suffer the righteous to fall for euer.
Psalm 55:23	And thou, O God, shalt bring them downe into the pitte of corruption: the bloudie, and deceitfull men shall not liue halfe their dayes: but I will trust in thee.
Psalm 56:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of David on Michtam, concerning the dumme doue in a farre countrey, when the Philistims tooke him in Gath. Be mercifull vnto me, O God, for man would swallow me vp: he fighteth continually and vexeth me.
Psalm 56:2	Mine enemies would dayly swallowe mee vp: for many fight against me, O thou most High.
Psalm 56:3	When I was afrayd, I trusted in thee.
Psalm 56:4	I will reioyce in God, because of his word, I trust in God, and will not feare what flesh can doe vnto me.
Psalm 56:5	Mine owne wordes grieue me dayly: all their thoughtes are against me to doe me hurt.
Psalm 56:6	They gather together, and keepe them selues close: they marke my steps, because they waite for my soule.
Psalm 56:7	They thinke they shall escape by iniquitie: O God, cast these people downe in thine anger.
Psalm 56:8	Thou hast counted my wandrings: put my teares into thy bottel: are they not in thy register?
Psalm 56:9	When I cry, then mine enemies shall turne backe: this I know, for God is with me.
Psalm 56:10	I will reioyce in God because of his worde: in the Lord wil I reioyce because of his worde.
Psalm 56:11	In God doe I trust: I will not be afrayd what man can doe vnto me.
Psalm 56:12	Thy vowes are vpon me, O God: I will render prayses vnto thee.
Psalm 56:13	For thou hast deliuered my soule from death, and also my feete from falling, that I may walke before God in the light of the liuing.
Psalm 57:1	To him that excelleth. Destroy not. A Psalme of David on Michtam. When he fled from Saul in the cave. Have mercie vpon me, O God, haue mercie vpon me: for my soule trusteth in thee, and in the shadowe of thy wings wil I trust, till these afflictions ouerpasse.
Psalm 57:2	I will call vnto the most high God, euen to the God, that performeth his promise toward me.
Psalm 57:3	He will send from heauen, and saue me from the reproofe of him that would swallowe me. Selah. God wil send his mercy, and his trueth.
Psalm 57:4	My soule is among lions: I lie among the children of men, that are set on fire: whose teeth are speares and arrowes, and their tongue a sharpe sworde.
Psalm 57:5	Exalt thy selfe, O God, aboue the heauen, and let thy glory be vpon all the earth.
Psalm 57:6	They haue layd a net for my steps: my soule is pressed downe: they haue digged a pit before me, and are fallen into the mids of it. Selah.
Psalm 57:7	Mine heart is prepared, O God, mine heart is prepared: I will sing and giue prayse.
Psalm 57:8	Awake my tongue, awake viole and harpe: I wil awake early.
Psalm 57:9	I will prayse thee, O Lord, among the people, and I wil sing vnto thee among the nations.
Psalm 57:10	For thy mercie is great vnto the heauens, and thy trueth vnto the cloudes.
Psalm 57:11	Exalt thy selfe, O God, aboue the heauens, and let thy glory be vpon all the earth.
Psalm 58:1	To him that excelleth. Destroy not. A Psalme of David on Michtam. Is it true? O Congregation, speake ye iustly? O sonnes of men, iudge ye vprightly?
Psalm 58:2	Yea, rather ye imagine mischiefe in your heart: your hands execute crueltie vpon the earth.
Psalm 58:3	The wicked are strangers from ye wombe: euen from the belly haue they erred, and speake lyes.
Psalm 58:4	Their poyson is euen like the poyson of a serpent: like ye deafe adder that stoppeth his eare.
Psalm 58:5	Which heareth not the voyce of the inchanter, though he be most expert in charming.
Psalm 58:6	Breake their teeth, O God, in their mouthes: breake the iawes of the yong lions, O Lord.
Psalm 58:7	Let them melt like the waters, let them passe away: when hee shooteth his arrowes, let them be as broken.
Psalm 58:8	Let them consume like a snayle that melteth, and like the vntimely fruite of a woman, that hath not seene the sunne.
Psalm 58:9	As raw flesh before your pots feele the fire of thornes: so let him cary them away as with a whirlewinde in his wrath.
Psalm 58:10	The righteous shall reioyce when he seeeth the vengeance: he shall wash his feete in the blood of the wicked.
Psalm 58:11	And men shall say, Verily there is fruite for the righteous: doutlesse there is a God that iudgeth in the earth.
Psalm 59:1	To him that excelleth. Destroy not. A Psalme of David on Michtam. When Saul sent and they did watch the house to kill him. O my God, deliuer mee from mine enemies: defend me from them that rise vp against me.
Psalm 59:2	Deliuer me from the wicked doers, and saue me from the bloody men.
Psalm 59:3	For loe, they haue layd waite for my soule: the mightie men are gathered against me, not for mine offence, nor for my sinne, O Lord.
Psalm 59:4	They runne and prepare themselues without a fault on my part: arise therefore to assist me, and beholde.
Psalm 59:5	Euen thou, O Lord God of hostes, O God of Israel awake to visit all the heathen, and be not merciful vnto all that transgresse maliciously. Selah.
Psalm 59:6	They goe to and from in the euening: they barke like dogs, and goe about the citie.
Psalm 59:7	Behold, they brag in their talke, and swords are in their lips: for, Who, say they, doeth heare?
Psalm 59:8	But thou, O Lord, shalt haue them in derision, and thou shalt laugh at all the heathen.
Psalm 59:9	He is strong: but I will waite vpon thee: for God is my defence.
Psalm 59:10	My mercifull God will preuent me: God wil let me see my desire vpon mine enemies.
Psalm 59:11	Slay them not, least my people forget it: but scatter them abroad by thy power, and put them downe, O Lord our shield,
Psalm 59:12	For the sinne of their mouth, and the words of their lips: and let them be taken in their pride, euen for their periurie and lies, that they speake.
Psalm 59:13	Consume them in thy wrath: consume them that they be no more: and let them knowe that God ruleth in Iaakob, euen vnto the ends of the world. Selah.
Psalm 59:14	And in the euening they shall go to and from, and barke like dogs, and go about the citie.
Psalm 59:15	They shall runne here and there for meate: and surely they shall not be satisfied, though they tary all night.
Psalm 59:16	But I wil sing of thy power, and will prayse thy mercy in the morning: for thou hast bene my defence and refuge in the day of my trouble.
Psalm 59:17	Vnto thee, O my Strength, wil I sing: for God is my defence, and my mercifull God.
Psalm 60:1	To him that excelleth upon Shushan Eduth, or Michtam. A Psalme of David to teach. When he fought against Aram Naharaim, and against Aram Zobah, when Joab returned and slew twelve thousand Edomites in the salt valley. O God, thou hast cast vs out, thou hast scattered vs, thou hast bene angry, turne againe vnto vs.
Psalm 60:2	Thou hast made the land to tremble, and hast made it to gape: heale the breaches thereof, for it is shaken.
Psalm 60:3	Thou hast shewed thy people heauy things: thou hast made vs to drinke the wine of giddines.
Psalm 60:4	But now thou hast giuen a banner to them that feare thee, that it may be displayed because of thy trueth. Selah.
Psalm 60:5	That thy beloued may be deliuered, helpe with thy right hand and heare me.
Psalm 60:6	God hath spoken in his holines: therefore I will reioyce: I shall deuide Shechem, and measure the valley of Succoth.
Psalm 60:7	Gilead shalbe mine, and Manasseh shalbe mine: Ephraim also shalbe the strength of mine head: Iudah is my lawgiuer.
Psalm 60:8	Moab shalbe my wash pot: ouer Edom will I cast out my shoe: Palestina shew thy selfe ioyfull for me.
Psalm 60:9	Who will leade me into the strong citie? who will bring me vnto Edom?
Psalm 60:10	Wilt not thou, O God, which hadest cast vs off, and didest not go forth, O God, with our armies?
Psalm 60:11	Giue vs helpe against trouble: for vaine is the helpe of man.
Psalm 60:12	Through God we shall doe valiantly: for he shall tread downe our enemies.
Psalm 61:1	To him that excelleth on Neginoth. A Psalme of David. Heare my cry, O God: giue eare vnto my prayer.
Psalm 61:2	From the endes of the earth will I crye vnto thee: when mine heart is opprest, bring me vpon the rocke that is higher then I.
Psalm 61:3	For thou hast bene mine hope, and a strong tower against the enemie.
Psalm 61:4	I will dwell in thy Tabernacle for euer, and my trust shall be vnder the couering of thy wings. Selah.
Psalm 61:5	For thou, O God, hast heard my desires: thou hast giuen an heritage vnto those that feare thy Name.
Psalm 61:6	Thou shalt giue the King a long life: his yeeres shalbe as many ages.
Psalm 61:7	Hee shall dwell before God for euer: prepare mercie and faithfulnes that they may preserue him.
Psalm 61:8	So will I alway sing prayse vnto thy Name in performing dayly my vowes.
Psalm 62:1	To the excelletn musician Ieduthun. A Psalme of David. Yet my soule keepeth silence vnto God: of him commeth my saluation.
Psalm 62:2	Yet he is my strength and my saluation, and my defence: therefore I shall not much be mooued.
Psalm 62:3	How long wil ye imagine mischiefe against a man? ye shalbe all slaine: ye shalbe as a bowed wall, or as a wall shaken.
Psalm 62:4	Yet they consult to cast him downe from his dignitie: their delight is in lies, they blesse with their mouthes, but curse with their hearts. Selah.
Psalm 62:5	Yet my soule keepe thou silence vnto God: for mine hope is in him.
Psalm 62:6	Yet is hee my strength, and my saluation, and my defence: therefore I shall not be mooued.
Psalm 62:7	In God is my saluation and my glory, the rocke of my strength: in God is my trust.
Psalm 62:8	Trust in him alway, ye people: powre out your hearts before him, for God is our hope. Selah.
Psalm 62:9	Yet the children of men are vanitie, the chiefe men are lies: to lay them vpon a balance they are altogether lighter then vanitie.
Psalm 62:10	Trust not in oppression nor in robberie: be not vaine: if riches increase, set not your heart thereon.
Psalm 62:11	God spake once or twise, I haue heard it, that power belongeth vnto God,
Psalm 62:12	And to thee, O Lord, mercie: for thou rewardest euery one according to his worke.
Psalm 63:1	A Psalme of David. When he was in the wildernesse of Judah. O God, thou art my God, earely will I seeke thee: my soule thirsteth for thee: my flesh longeth greatly after thee in a barren and drye land without water.
Psalm 63:2	Thus I beholde thee as in the Sanctuarie, when I beholde thy power and thy glorie.
Psalm 63:3	For thy louing kindnesse is better then life: therefore my lippes shall prayse thee.
Psalm 63:4	Thus will I magnifie thee all my life, and lift vp mine hands in thy name.
Psalm 63:5	My soule shalbe satisfied, as with marowe and fatnesse, and my mouth shall praise thee with ioyfull lippes,
Psalm 63:6	When I remember thee on my bedde, and when I thinke vpon thee in the night watches.
Psalm 63:7	Because thou hast bene mine helper, therefore vnder the shadow of thy wings wil I reioyce.
Psalm 63:8	My soule cleaueth vnto thee: for thy right hand vpholdeth me.
Psalm 63:9	Therefore they that seeke my soule to destroy it, they shall goe into the lowest partes of the earth.
Psalm 63:10	They shall cast him downe with the edge of the sword, and they shall be a portion for foxes.
Psalm 63:11	But the King shall reioyce in God, and all that sweare by him shall reioyce in him: for the mouth of them that speake lyes, shall be stopped.
Psalm 64:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of David. Heare my voyce, O God, in my prayer: preserue my life from feare of the enemie.
Psalm 64:2	Hide me from the conspiracie of the wicked, and from the rage of the workers of iniquitie.
Psalm 64:3	Which haue whette their tongue like a sword, and shot for their arrowes bitter wordes.
Psalm 64:4	To shoote at the vpright in secrete: they shoote at him suddenly, and feare not.
Psalm 64:5	They encourage themselues in a wicked purpose: they commune together to lay snares priuilie, and say, Who shall see them?
Psalm 64:6	They haue sought out iniquities, and haue accomplished that which they sought out, euen euery one his secret thoughtes, and the depth of his heart.
Psalm 64:7	But God will shoote an arrowe at them suddenly: their strokes shalbe at once.
Psalm 64:8	They shall cause their owne tongue to fall vpon them: and whosoeuer shall see them, shall flee away.
Psalm 64:9	And all men shall see it, and declare the worke of God, and they shall vnderstand, what he hath wrought.
Psalm 64:10	But the righteous shall be glad in the Lord, and trust in him: and all that are vpright of heart, shall reioyce.
Psalm 65:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme or song of David. O God, praise waiteth for thee in Zion, and vnto thee shall the vowe be perfourmed.
Psalm 65:2	Because thou hearest the prayer, vnto thee shall all flesh come.
Psalm 65:3	Wicked deedes haue preuailed against me: but thou wilt be mercifull vnto our transgressions.
Psalm 65:4	Blessed is he, whom thou chusest and causest to come to thee: he shall dwell in thy courtes, and we shall be satisfied with the pleasures of thine House, euen of thine holy Temple.
Psalm 65:5	O God of our saluation, thou wilt answere vs with fearefull signes in thy righteousnes, O thou the hope of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are farre off in the sea.
Psalm 65:6	He stablisheth the mountaines by his power: and is girded about with strength.
Psalm 65:7	He appeaseth the noyse of the seas and the noyse of the waues thereof, and the tumults of the people.
Psalm 65:8	They also, that dwell in the vttermost parts of the earth, shalbe afraide of thy signes: thou shalt make the East and the West to reioyce.
Psalm 65:9	Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou makest it very riche: the Riuer of God is full of water: thou preparest them corne: for so thou appointest it.
Psalm 65:10	Thou waterest abundantly the furrowes thereof: thou causest the raine to descende into the valleies thereof: thou makest it soft with showres, and blessest the bud thereof.
Psalm 65:11	Thou crownest ye yeere with thy goodnesse, and thy steppes droppe fatnesse.
Psalm 65:12	They drop vpon the pastures of the wildernesse: and the hils shalbe compassed with gladnes.
Psalm 65:13	The pastures are clad with sheepe: the valleis also shalbe couered with corne: therefore they shoute for ioye, and sing.
Psalm 66:1	To him that excelleth. A song or Psalme. Rejoice in God, all ye inhabitants of the earth.
Psalm 66:2	Sing forth the glory of his name: make his praise glorious.
Psalm 66:3	Say vnto God, Howe terrible art thou in thy workes! through the greatnesse of thy power shall thine enemies be in subiection vnto thee.
Psalm 66:4	All the worlde shall worship thee, and sing vnto thee, euen sing of thy Name. Selah.
Psalm 66:5	Come and beholde the workes of God: he is terrible in his doing towarde the sonnes of men.
Psalm 66:6	He hath turned the Sea into drie land: they passe through the riuer on foote: there did we reioyce in him.
Psalm 66:7	He ruleth the worlde with his power: his eyes beholde the nations: the rebellious shall not exalt them selues. Selah.
Psalm 66:8	Prayse our God, ye people, and make the voyce of his prayse to be heard.
Psalm 66:9	Which holdeth our soules in life, and suffereth not our feete to slippe.
Psalm 66:10	For thou, O God, hast proued vs, thou hast tryed vs as siluer is tryed.
Psalm 66:11	Thou hast brought vs into the snare, and layed a strait chaine vpon our loynes.
Psalm 66:12	Thou hast caused men to ryde ouer our heads: we went into fire and into water, but thou broughtest vs out into a welthie place.
Psalm 66:13	I will go into thine House with burnt offrings, and will pay thee my vowes,
Psalm 66:14	Which my lippes haue promised, and my mouth hath spoken in mine affliction.
Psalm 66:15	I will offer vnto thee the burnt offerings of fat rammes with incense: I will prepare bullocks and goates. Selah.
Psalm 66:16	Come and hearken, all ye that feare God, and I will tell you what he hath done to my soule.
Psalm 66:17	I called vnto him with my mouth, and he was exalted with my tongue.
Psalm 66:18	If I regard wickednesse in mine heart, the Lord will not heare me.
Psalm 66:19	But God hath heard me, and considered the voyce of my prayer.
Psalm 66:20	Praysed be God, which hath not put backe my prayer, nor his mercie from me.
Psalm 67:1	To him that excelleth on Neginoth. A Psalme or song. God be mercifull vnto vs, and blesse vs, and cause his face to shine among vs. Selah.
Psalm 67:2	That they may know thy way vpon earth, and thy sauing health among all nations.
Psalm 67:3	Let the people prayse thee, O God: let all the people prayse thee.
Psalm 67:4	Let the people be glad and reioyce: for thou shalt iudge the people righteously, and gouerne the nations vpon the earth. Selah.
Psalm 67:5	Let the people prayse thee, O God: let all the people prayse thee.
Psalm 67:6	Then shall the earth bring foorth her increase, and God, euen our God shall blesse vs.
Psalm 67:7	God shall blesse vs, and all the endes of the earth shall feare him.
Psalm 68:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme or song of David. God will arise, and his enemies shalbe scattered: they also that hate him, shall flee before him.
Psalm 68:2	As the smoke vanisheth, so shalt thou driue them away: and as waxe melteth before the fire, so shall the wicked perish at the presence of God.
Psalm 68:3	But the righteous shalbe glad, and reioyce before God: yea, they shall leape for ioye.
Psalm 68:4	Sing vnto God, and sing prayses vnto his name: exalt him that rideth vpon the heauens, in his Name Iah, and reioyce before him.
Psalm 68:5	He is a Father of the fatherlesse, and a Iudge of the widowes, euen God in his holy habitation.
Psalm 68:6	God maketh the solitarie to dwell in families, and deliuereth them that were prisoners in stocks: but the rebellious shall dwell in a dry land.
Psalm 68:7	O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people: when thou wentest through the wildernesse, (Selah)
Psalm 68:8	The earth shooke, and the heauens dropped at the presence of this God: euen Sinai was moued at the presence of God, euen the God of Israel.
Psalm 68:9	Thou, O God, sendest a gracious raine vpon thine inheritance, and thou didest refresh it when it was wearie.
Psalm 68:10	Thy Congregation dwelled therein: for thou, O God, hast of thy goodnesse prepared it for the poore.
Psalm 68:11	The Lord gaue matter to the women to tell of the great armie.
Psalm 68:12	Kings of the armies did flee: they did flee, and she that remained in the house, deuided the spoyle.
Psalm 68:13	Though ye haue lien among pots, yet shall ye be as the winges of a doue that is couered with siluer, and whose fethers are like yelowe golde.
Psalm 68:14	When the Almightie scattered Kings in it, it was white as the snowe in Zalmon.
Psalm 68:15	The mountaine of God is like the mountaine of Bashan: it is an high Mountaine, as mount Bashan.
Psalm 68:16	Why leape ye, ye high mountaines? as for this Mountaine, God deliteth to dwell in it: yea, the Lord will dwell in it for euer.
Psalm 68:17	The charets of God are twentie thousande thousand Angels, and the Lord is among them, as in the Sanctuarie of Sinai.
Psalm 68:18	Thou art gone vp on high: thou hast led captiuitie captiue, and receiued giftes for men: yea, euen the rebellious hast thou led, that the Lord God might dwell there.
Psalm 68:19	Praysed be the Lord, euen the God of our saluation, which ladeth vs dayly with benefites. Selah.
Psalm 68:20	This is our God, euen the God that saueth vs: and to the Lord God belong the issues of death.
Psalm 68:21	Surely God will wound the head of his enemies, and the hearie pate of him that walketh in his sinnes.
Psalm 68:22	The Lord hath sayde, I will bring my people againe from Bashan: I will bring them againe from the depths of the Sea:
Psalm 68:23	That thy foote may bee dipped in blood, and the tongue of thy dogges in the blood of the enemies, euen in it.
Psalm 68:24	They haue seene, O God, thy goings, the goings of my God, and my King, which art in the Sanctuarie.
Psalm 68:25	The singers went before, the players of instruments after: in the middes were the maides playing with timbrels.
Psalm 68:26	Praise yee God in the assemblies, and the Lord, ye that are of the fountaine of Israel.
Psalm 68:27	There was litle Beniamin with their ruler, and the princes of Iudah with their assemblie, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.
Psalm 68:28	Thy God hath appointed thy strength: stablish, O God, that, which thou hast wrought in vs,
Psalm 68:29	Out of thy Temple vpon Ierusalem: and Kings shall bring presents vnto thee.
Psalm 68:30	Destroy the company of the spearemen, and multitude of the mightie bulles with the calues of the people, that tread vnder feete pieces of siluer: scatter the people that delite in warre.
Psalm 68:31	Then shall the princes come out of Egypt: Ethiopia shall hast to stretche her hands vnto God.
Psalm 68:32	Sing vnto God, O yee kingdomes of the earth: sing praise vnto the Lord, (Selah)
Psalm 68:33	To him that rideth vpon ye most high heauens, which were from the beginning: beholde, he will send out by his voice a mightie sound.
Psalm 68:34	Ascribe the power to God: for his maiestie is vpon Israel, and his strength is in the cloudes.
Psalm 68:35	O God, thou art terrible out of thine holie places: the God of Israel is hee that giueth strength and power vnto the people: praised be God.
Psalm 69:1	To him that excelleth upon Shoshannim. A Psalme of David. Save mee, O God: for the waters are entred euen to my soule.
Psalm 69:2	I sticke fast in the deepe myre, where no staie is: I am come into deepe waters, and the streames runne ouer me.
Psalm 69:3	I am wearie of crying: my throte is drie: mine eyes faile, whiles I waite for my God.
Psalm 69:4	They that hate mee without a cause, are moe then the heares of mine heade: they that would destroy mee, and are mine enemies falsly, are mightie, so that I restored that which I tooke not.
Psalm 69:5	O God, thou knowest my foolishnesse, and my fautes are not hid from thee.
Psalm 69:6	Let not them that trust in thee, O Lord God of hostes, be ashamed for me: let not those that seeke thee, be confounded through mee, O God of Israel.
Psalm 69:7	For thy sake haue I suffred reproofe: shame hath couered my face.
Psalm 69:8	I am become a stranger vnto my brethren, euen an aliant vnto my mothers sonnes.
Psalm 69:9	For the zeale of thine house hath eaten mee, and the rebukes of them that rebuked thee, are fallen vpon me.
Psalm 69:10	I wept and my soule fasted, but that was to my reproofe.
Psalm 69:11	I put on a sacke also: and I became a prouerbe vnto them.
Psalm 69:12	They that sate in the gate, spake of mee, and the drunkards sang of me.
Psalm 69:13	But Lord, I make my praier vnto thee in an acceptable time, euen in the multitude of thy mercie: O God, heare me in the trueth of thy saluation.
Psalm 69:14	Deliuer mee out of the myre, that I sinke not: let me be deliuered from them that hate me, and out of the deepe waters.
Psalm 69:15	Let not the water flood drowne mee, neither let the deepe swallowe me vp: and let not the pit shut her mouth vpon me.
Psalm 69:16	Heare me, O Lord, for thy louing kindnes is good: turne vnto me according to ye multitude of thy tender mercies.
Psalm 69:17	And hide not thy face from thy seruant, for I am in trouble: make haste and heare me.
Psalm 69:18	Draw neere vnto my soule and redeeme it: deliuer me because of mine enemies.
Psalm 69:19	Thou hast knowen my reproofe and my shame, and my dishonour: all mine aduersaries are before thee.
Psalm 69:20	Rebuke hath broken mine heart, and I am full of heauinesse, and I looked for some to haue pitie on me, but there was none: and for comforters, but I found none.
Psalm 69:21	For they gaue me gall in my meate, and in my thirst they gaue me vineger to drinke.
Psalm 69:22	Let their table be a snare before them, and their prosperitie their ruine.
Psalm 69:23	Let their eyes be blinded that they see not: and make their loynes alway to tremble.
Psalm 69:24	Powre out thine anger vpon them, and let thy wrathfull displeasure take them.
Psalm 69:25	Let their habitation be voide, and let none dwell in their tents.
Psalm 69:26	For they persecute him, whome thou hast smitten: and they adde vnto the sorrowe of them, whome thou hast wounded.
Psalm 69:27	Laie iniquitie vpon their iniquitie, and let them not come into thy righteousnesse.
Psalm 69:28	Let them be put out of the booke of life, neither let them be written with the righteous.
Psalm 69:29	When I am poore and in heauinesse, thine helpe, O God, shall exalt me.
Psalm 69:30	I will praise the Name of God with a song, and magnifie him with thankesgiuing.
Psalm 69:31	This also shall please the Lord better then a yong bullocke, that hath hornes and hoofes.
Psalm 69:32	The humble shall see this, and they that seeke God, shalbe glad, and your heart shall liue.
Psalm 69:33	For the Lord heareth the poore, and despiseth not his prisoners.
Psalm 69:34	Let heauen and earth praise him: the seas and all that moueth in them.
Psalm 69:35	For God will saue Zion, and builde the cities of Iudah, that men may dwell there and haue it in possession.
Psalm 69:36	The seede also of his seruants shall inherit it: and they that loue his name, shall dwel therein.
Psalm 70:1	To him excelleth. A Psalme of David to put in remembrance. O God, haste thee to deliuer mee: make haste to helpe me, O Lord.
Psalm 70:2	Let them be confounded and put to shame, that seeke my soule: let them bee turned backewarde and put to rebuke, that desire mine hurt.
Psalm 70:3	Let them be turned backe for a rewarde of their shame, which said, Aha, aha.
Psalm 70:4	But let all those that seeke thee, be ioyfull and glad in thee, and let all that loue thy saluation, say alwaies, God be praised.
Psalm 70:5	Nowe I am poore and needie: O God, make haste to me: thou art mine helper, and my deliuerer: O Lord, make no tarying.
Psalm 71:1	In thee, O Lord, I trust: let me neuer be ashamed.
Psalm 71:2	Rescue mee and deliuer me in thy righteousnes: incline thine eare vnto me and saue me.
Psalm 71:3	Be thou my strong rocke, whereunto I may alway resort: thou hast giuen commandement to saue me: for thou art my rocke, and my fortresse.
Psalm 71:4	Deliuer mee, O my God, out of the hande of the wicked: out of the hande of the euill and cruell man.
Psalm 71:5	For thou art mine hope, O Lord God, euen my trust from my youth.
Psalm 71:6	Vpon thee haue I beene stayed from the wombe: thou art he that tooke me out of my mothers bowels: my praise shalbe alwaies of thee.
Psalm 71:7	I am become as it were a monster vnto many: but thou art my sure trust.
Psalm 71:8	Let my mouth be filled with thy praise, and with thy glory euery day.
Psalm 71:9	Cast mee not off in the time of age: forsake me not when my strength faileth.
Psalm 71:10	For mine enemies speake of mee, and they that lay waite for my soule, take their counsell together,
Psalm 71:11	Saying, God hath forsaken him: pursue and take him, for there is none to deliuer him.
Psalm 71:12	Goe not farre from me, O God: my God, haste thee to helpe me.
Psalm 71:13	Let them be confounded and consumed that are against my soule: let them be couered with reproofe and confusion, that seeke mine hurt.
Psalm 71:14	But I will waite continually, and will praise thee more and more.
Psalm 71:15	My mouth shall daily rehearse thy righteousnesse, and thy saluation: for I knowe not the nomber.
Psalm 71:16	I will goe forwarde in the strength of the Lord God, and will make mention of thy righteousnesse, euen of thine onely.
Psalm 71:17	O God, thou hast taught me from my youth euen vntill nowe: therefore will I tell of thy wonderous workes,
Psalm 71:18	Yea, euen vnto mine olde age and graie head, O God: forsake me not, vntill I haue declared thine arme vnto this generation, and thy power to all them, that shall come.
Psalm 71:19	And thy righteousnes, O God, I wil exalt on high: for thou hast done great thinges: O God, who is like vnto thee!
Psalm 71:20	Which hast shewed me great troubles and aduersities, but thou wilt returne, and reuiue me, and wilt come againe, and take mee vp from the depth of the earth.
Psalm 71:21	Thou wilt increase mine honour, and returne and comfort me.
Psalm 71:22	Therefore will I praise thee for thy faithfulnesse, O God, vpon instrument and viole: vnto thee will I sing vpon the harpe, O Holy one of Israel.
Psalm 71:23	My lippes will reioyce when I sing vnto thee, and my soule, which thou hast deliuered.
Psalm 71:24	My tongue also shall talke of thy righteousnesse daily: for they are confounded and brought vnto shame, that seeke mine hurt.
Psalm 72:1	A Psalme of Salomon. Give thy iudgements to the King, O God, and thy righteousnesse to the Kings sonne.
Psalm 72:2	Then shall he iudge thy people in righteousnesse, and thy poore with equitie.
Psalm 72:3	The mountaines and the hilles shall bring peace to the people by iustice.
Psalm 72:4	He shall iudge the poore of the people: he shall saue the children of the needie, and shall subdue the oppressor.
Psalm 72:5	They shall feare thee as long as the sunne and moone endureth, from generatio to generation.
Psalm 72:6	He shall come downe like the rayne vpon the mowen grasse, and as the showres that water the earth.
Psalm 72:7	In his dayes shall the righteous florish, and abundance of peace shalbe so long as the moone endureth.
Psalm 72:8	His dominion shall be also from sea to sea, and from the Riuer vnto the endes of the land.
Psalm 72:9	They that dwell in ye wildernes, shall kneele before him, and his enemies shall licke the dust.
Psalm 72:10	The Kings of Tarshish and of the yles shall bring presents: the Kings of Sheba and Seba shall bring giftes.
Psalm 72:11	Yea, all Kings shall worship him: all nations shall serue him.
Psalm 72:12	For he shall deliuer the poore when he cryeth: the needie also, and him that hath no helper.
Psalm 72:13	He shalbe mercifull to the poore and needie, and shall preserue the soules of the poore.
Psalm 72:14	He shall redeeme their soules from deceite and violence, and deare shall their blood be in his sight.
Psalm 72:15	Yea, he shall liue, and vnto him shall they giue of the golde of Sheba: they shall also pray for him continually, and dayly blesse him.
Psalm 72:16	An handfull of corne shall be sowen in the earth, euen in the toppe of the mountaines, and the fruite thereof shall shake like the trees of Lebanon: and the children shall florish out of the citie like the grasse of the earth.
Psalm 72:17	His name shall be for euer: his name shall indure as long as the sunne: all nations shall blesse him, and be blessed in him.
Psalm 72:18	Blessed be the Lord God, euen the God of Israel, which onely doeth wonderous things.
Psalm 72:19	And blessed be his glorious Name for euer: and let all the earth be filled with his glorie. So be it, euen so be it. HERE END THE prayers of Dauid, the sonne of Ishai.
Psalm 73:1	A Psalme committed to Asaph. Yet God is good to Israel: euen, to the pure in heart.
Psalm 73:2	As for me, my feete were almost gone: my steps had well neere slipt.
Psalm 73:3	For I feared at the foolish, when I sawe the prosperitie of the wicked.
Psalm 73:4	For there are no bandes in their death, but they are lustie and strong.
Psalm 73:5	They are not in trouble as other men, neither are they plagued with other men.
Psalm 73:6	Therefore pride is as a chayne vnto them, and crueltie couereth them as a garment.
Psalm 73:7	Their eyes stande out for fatnesse: they haue more then heart can wish.
Psalm 73:8	They are licentious, and speake wickedly of their oppression: they talke presumptuously.
Psalm 73:9	They set their mouth against heauen, and their tongue walketh through the earth.
Psalm 73:10	Therefore his people turne hither: for waters of a full cup are wrung out to them.
Psalm 73:11	And they say, Howe doeth God know it? or is there knowledge in the most High?
Psalm 73:12	Lo, these are the wicked, yet prosper they alway, and increase in riches.
Psalm 73:13	Certainely I haue clensed mine heart in vaine, and washed mine hands in innocencie.
Psalm 73:14	For dayly haue I bene punished, and chastened euery morning.
Psalm 73:15	If I say, I will iudge thus, beholde the generation of thy children: I haue trespassed.
Psalm 73:16	Then thought I to know this, but it was too painefull for me,
Psalm 73:17	Vntill I went into the Sanctuarie of God: then vnderstoode I their ende.
Psalm 73:18	Surely thou hast set them in slipperie places, and castest them downe into desolation.
Psalm 73:19	How suddenly are they destroyed, perished and horribly consumed,
Psalm 73:20	As a dreame when one awaketh! O Lord, when thou raisest vs vp, thou shalt make their image despised.
Psalm 73:21	Certainely mine heart was vexed, and I was pricked in my reines:
Psalm 73:22	So foolish was I and ignorant: I was a beast before thee.
Psalm 73:23	Yet I was alway with thee: thou hast holden me by my right hand.
Psalm 73:24	Thou wilt guide me by thy counsell, and afterward receiue me to glory.
Psalm 73:25	Whom haue I in heauen but thee? and I haue desired none in the earth with thee.
Psalm 73:26	My flesh fayleth and mine heart also: but God is the strength of mine heart, and my portion for euer.
Psalm 73:27	For loe, they that withdrawe themselues from thee, shall perish: thou destroyest all them that goe a whoring from thee.
Psalm 73:28	As for me, it is good for me to draw neere to God: therefore I haue put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all thy workes.
Psalm 74:1	A Psalme to give instruction, committed to Asaph. O God, why hast thou put vs away for euer? why is thy wrath kindled against the sheepe of thy pasture?
Psalm 74:2	Thinke vpon thy Congregation, which thou hast possessed of olde, and on the rod of thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed, and on this mount Zion, wherein thou hast dwelt.
Psalm 74:3	Lift vp thy strokes, that thou mayest for euer destroy euery enemie that doeth euill to the Sanctuarie.
Psalm 74:4	Thine aduersaries roare in the middes of thy Congregation, and set vp their banners for signes.
Psalm 74:5	He that lifted the axes vpon the thicke trees, was renowmed, as one, that brought a thing to perfection:
Psalm 74:6	But nowe they breake downe the carued worke thereof with axes and hammers.
Psalm 74:7	They haue cast thy Sanctuarie into the fire, and rased it to the grounde, and haue defiled the dwelling place of thy Name.
Psalm 74:8	They saide in their hearts, Let vs destroy them altogether: they haue burnt all the Synagogues of God in the land.
Psalm 74:9	We see not our signes: there is not one Prophet more, nor any with vs that knoweth howe long.
Psalm 74:10	O God, howe long shall the aduersarie reproche thee? shall the enemie blaspheme thy Name for euer?
Psalm 74:11	Why withdrawest thou thine hand, euen thy right hand? drawe it out of thy bosome, and consume them.
Psalm 74:12	Euen God is my King of olde, working saluation in the middes of the earth.
Psalm 74:13	Thou didest deuide the sea by thy power: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters.
Psalm 74:14	Thou brakest the head of Liuiathan in pieces, and gauest him to be meate for the people in wildernesse.
Psalm 74:15	Thou brakest vp the fountaine and riuer: thou dryedst vp mightie riuers.
Psalm 74:16	The day is thine, and the night is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sunne.
Psalm 74:17	Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter.
Psalm 74:18	Remember this, that the enemie hath reproched the Lord, and the foolish people hath blasphemed thy Name.
Psalm 74:19	Giue not the soule of thy turtle doue vnto the beast, and forget not the Congregation of thy poore for euer.
Psalm 74:20	Consider thy couenant: for the darke places of the earth are full of the habitations of the cruell.
Psalm 74:21	Oh let not the oppressed returne ashamed, but let the poore and needie prayse thy Name.
Psalm 74:22	Arise, O God: mainteine thine owne cause: remember thy dayly reproche by the foolish man.
Psalm 74:23	Forget not the voyce of thine enemies: for the tumult of them, that rise against thee, ascendeth continually.
Psalm 75:1	To him that excelleth. Destroy not. A Psalme or song committed toAsaph. We will prayse thee, O God, we will prayse thee, for thy Name is neere: therefore they will declare thy wonderous workes.
Psalm 75:2	When I shall take a conuenient time, I will iudge righteously.
Psalm 75:3	The earth and all the inhabitantes thereof are dissolued: but I will establish the pillars of it. Selah.
Psalm 75:4	I saide vnto the foolish, Be not so foolish, and to the wicked, Lift not vp the horne.
Psalm 75:5	Lift not vp your horne on high, neither speake with a stiffe necke.
Psalm 75:6	For to come to preferment is neither from the East, nor from the West, nor from the South,
Psalm 75:7	But God is the iudge: he maketh lowe and he maketh hie.
Psalm 75:8	For in the hand of the Lord is a cup, and the wine is red: it is full mixt, and he powreth out of the same: surely all the wicked of the earth shall wring out and drinke the dregges thereof.
Psalm 75:9	But I will declare for euer, and sing prayses vnto the God of Iaakob.
Psalm 75:10	All the hornes of the wicked also will I breake: but the hornes of the righteous shalbe exalted.
Psalm 76:1	To him that excelleth on Neginoth. A Psalme or song committed to Asaph. God is knowen in Iudah: his Name is great in Israel.
Psalm 76:2	For in Shalem is his Tabernacle, and his dwelling in Zion.
Psalm 76:3	There brake he the arrowes of the bowe, the shielde and the sword and the battell. Selah.
Psalm 76:4	Thou art more bright and puissant, then the mountaines of pray.
Psalm 76:5	The stout hearted are spoyled: they haue slept their sleepe, and all the men of strength haue not found their hands.
Psalm 76:6	At thy rebuke, O God of Iaakob, both the chariot and horse are cast a sleepe.
Psalm 76:7	Thou, euen thou art to be feared: and who shall stand in thy sight, when thou art angrie!
Psalm 76:8	Thou didest cause thy iudgement to bee heard from heauen: therefore the earth feared and was still,
Psalm 76:9	When thou, O God, arose to iudgement, to helpe all the meeke of the earth. Selah.
Psalm 76:10	Surely the rage of man shall turne to thy praise: the remnant of the rage shalt thou restrayne.
Psalm 76:11	Vowe and performe vnto the Lord your God, all ye that be rounde about him: let them bring presents vnto him that ought to be feared.
Psalm 76:12	He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the Kings of the earth.
Psalm 77:1	For the excellent musician Ieduthun. A Psalme committed to Asaph. My voyce came to God, when I cryed: my voyce came to God, and he heard me.
Psalm 77:2	In the day of my trouble I sought ye Lord: my sore ranne and ceased not in the night: my soule refused comfort.
Psalm 77:3	I did thinke vpon God, and was troubled: I praied, and my spirit was full of anguish. Selah.
Psalm 77:4	Thou keepest mine eyes waking: I was astonied and could not speake.
Psalm 77:5	Then I considered the daies of olde, and the yeeres of ancient time.
Psalm 77:6	I called to remembrance my song in the night: I communed with mine owne heart, and my spirit searched diligently.
Psalm 77:7	Will the Lord absent him selfe for euer? and will he shewe no more fauour?
Psalm 77:8	Is his mercie cleane gone for euer? doeth his promise faile for euermore?
Psalm 77:9	Hath God forgotten to be mercifull? hath he shut vp his teder mercies in displeasure? Selah.
Psalm 77:10	And I sayde, This is my death: yet I remembred the yeeres of the right hand of the most High.
Psalm 77:11	I remembred the workes of the Lord: certainely I remembred thy wonders of olde.
Psalm 77:12	I did also meditate all thy woorkes, and did deuise of thine actes, saying,
Psalm 77:13	Thy way, O God, is in the Sanctuarie: who is so great a God as our God!
Psalm 77:14	Thou art ye God that doest wonders: thou hast declared thy power among the people.
Psalm 77:15	Thou hast redeemed thy people with thine arme, euen the sonnes of Iaakob and Ioseph. Selah.
Psalm 77:16	The waters sawe thee, O God: the waters sawe thee, and were afraide: yea, the depths trembled.
Psalm 77:17	The cloudes powred out water: the heauens gaue a sounde: yea, thine arrowes went abroade.
Psalm 77:18	The voyce of thy thunder was rounde about: the lightnings lightened the worlde: the earth trembled and shooke.
Psalm 77:19	Thy way is in the Sea, and thy paths in the great waters, and thy footesteps are not knowen.
Psalm 77:20	Thou diddest leade thy people like sheepe by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
Psalm 78:1	A Psalme to give instruction committed to Asaph. Heare my doctrine, O my people: incline your eares vnto the wordes of my mouth.
Psalm 78:2	I will open my mouth in a parable: I will declare high sentences of olde.
Psalm 78:3	Which we haue heard and knowen, and our fathers haue tolde vs.
Psalm 78:4	Wee will not hide them from their children but to the generation to come we wil shewe the praises of the Lord his power also, and his wonderful woorkes that he hath done:
Psalm 78:5	How he established a testimonie in Iaakob, and ordeined a Law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they shoulde teache their children:
Psalm 78:6	That the posteritie might knowe it, and the children, which should be borne, should stand vp, and declare it to their children:
Psalm 78:7	That they might set their hope on God, and not forget the workes of God but keepe his commandements:
Psalm 78:8	And not to bee as their fathers, a disobedient and rebellious generation: a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirite was not faithfull vnto God.
Psalm 78:9	The children of Ephraim being armed and shooting with the bowe, turned backe in the day of battell.
Psalm 78:10	They kept not the couenant of God, but refused to walke in his Lawe,
Psalm 78:11	And forgate his Actes, and his wonderfull woorkes that he had shewed them.
Psalm 78:12	Hee did marueilous thinges in the sight of their fathers in the lande of Egypt: euen in the fielde of Zoan.
Psalm 78:13	He deuided the Sea, and led them through: he made also the waters to stand as an heape.
Psalm 78:14	In the day time also hee led them with a cloude, and all the night with a light of fire.
Psalm 78:15	He claue the rockes in the wildernes, and gaue them drinke as of the great depths.
Psalm 78:16	He brought floods also out of the stonie rocke; so that hee made the waters to descend like the riuers.
Psalm 78:17	Yet they sinned stil against him, and prouoked the Highest in the wildernesse,
Psalm 78:18	And tempted God in their heartes in requiring meate for their lust.
Psalm 78:19	They spake against God also, saying, Can God prepare a table in the wildernesse?
Psalm 78:20	Behold, he smote the rocke, that the water gushed out, and the streames ouerflowed: can hee giue bread also? or prepare flesh for his people?
Psalm 78:21	Therefore the Lord heard and was angrie, and the fire was kindled in Iaakob, and also wrath came vpon Israel,
Psalm 78:22	Because they beleeued not in God, and trusted not in his helpe.
Psalm 78:23	Yet he had comanded the clouds aboue, and had opened the doores of heauen,
Psalm 78:24	And had rained downe MAN vpon them for to eate, and had giuen them of the wheate of heauen.
Psalm 78:25	Man did eate the bread of Angels: hee sent them meate ynough.
Psalm 78:26	He caused the Eastwinde to passe in the heauen, and through his power he brought in the Southwinde.
Psalm 78:27	Hee rained flesh also vpon them as dust, and feathered foule as the sand of the sea.
Psalm 78:28	And hee made it fall in the middes of their campe euen round about their habitations.
Psalm 78:29	So they did eate and were well filled: for he gaue them their desire.
Psalm 78:30	They were not turned from their lust, but the meate was yet in their mouthes,
Psalm 78:31	When the wrath of God came euen vpon them, and slew the strongest of them, and smote downe the chosen men in Israel.
Psalm 78:32	For all this, they sinned stil, and beleeued not his wonderous woorkes.
Psalm 78:33	Therefore their daies did hee consume in vanitie, and their yeeres hastily.
Psalm 78:34	And when hee slewe them, they sought him and they returned, and sought God earely.
Psalm 78:35	And they remembred that God was their strength, and the most high God their redeemer.
Psalm 78:36	But they flattered him with their mouth, and dissembled with him with their tongue.
Psalm 78:37	For their heart was not vpright with him: neither were they faithfull in his couenant.
Psalm 78:38	Yet he being merciful forgaue their iniquitie, and destroied them not, but oft times called backe his anger, and did not stirre vp all his wrath.
Psalm 78:39	For he remembered that they were flesh: yea, a winde that passeth and commeth not againe.
Psalm 78:40	How oft did they prouoke him in the wildernes? and grieue him in the desert?
Psalm 78:41	Yea, they returned, and tempted God, and limited the Holie one of Israel.
Psalm 78:42	They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he deliuered them from the enemie,
Psalm 78:43	Nor him that set his signes in Egypt, and his wonders in the fielde of Zoan,
Psalm 78:44	And turned their riuers into blood, and their floods, that they could not drinke.
Psalm 78:45	Hee sent a swarme of flies among them, which deuoured them, and frogs, which destroyed them.
Psalm 78:46	He gaue also their fruites vnto the caterpiller, and their labour vnto the grassehopper.
Psalm 78:47	He destroied their vines with haile, and their wilde figge trees with the hailestone.
Psalm 78:48	He gaue their cattell also to the haile, and their flockes to the thunderboltes.
Psalm 78:49	Hee cast vpon them the fiercenesse of his anger, indignation and wrath, and vexation by the sending out of euill Angels.
Psalm 78:50	He made a way to his anger: he spared not their soule from death, but gaue their life to the pestilence,
Psalm 78:51	And smote al the firstborne in Egypt, euen the beginning of their strength in the tabernacles of Ham.
Psalm 78:52	But hee made his people to goe out like sheepe, and led them in the wildernes like a flocke.
Psalm 78:53	Yea, he caried them out safely, and they feared not, and the Sea couered their enemies.
Psalm 78:54	And he brought them vnto the borders of his Sanctuarie: euen to this Mountaine, which his right hand purchased.
Psalm 78:55	He cast out the heathe also before them, and caused them to fall to the lot of his inheritance, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tabernacles.
Psalm 78:56	Yet they tempted, and prouoked the most high God, and kept not his testimonies,
Psalm 78:57	But turned backe and delt falsely like their fathers: they turned like a deceitfull bowe.
Psalm 78:58	And they prouoked him to anger with their high places, and mooued him to wrath with their grauen images.
Psalm 78:59	God heard this and was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel,
Psalm 78:60	So that hee forsooke the habitation of Shilo, euen the Tabernacle where hee dwelt among men,
Psalm 78:61	And deliuered his power into captiuitie, and his beautie into the enemies hand.
Psalm 78:62	And hee gaue vp his people to the sworde, and was angrie with his inheritance.
Psalm 78:63	The fire deuoured their chosen men, and their maides were not praised.
Psalm 78:64	Their Priestes fell by the sworde, and their widowes lamented not.
Psalm 78:65	But the Lord awaked as one out of sleepe, and as a strong man that after his wine crieth out,
Psalm 78:66	And smote his enemies in the hinder parts, and put them to a perpetuall shame.
Psalm 78:67	Yet he refused the tabernacle of Ioseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim:
Psalm 78:68	But chose the tribe of Iudah, and mount Zion which he loued.
Psalm 78:69	And he built his Sanctuarie as an high palace, like the earth, which he stablished for euer.
Psalm 78:70	He chose Dauid also his seruant, and tooke him from the shepefolds.
Psalm 78:71	Euen from behinde the ewes with yong brought he him to feede his people in Iaakob, and his inheritance in Israel.
Psalm 78:72	So he fed them according to the simplicitie of his heart, and guided them by the discretion of his hands.
Psalm 79:1	A Psalme committed to Asaph. O God, the heathen are come into thine inheritance: thine holy Temple haue they defiled, and made Ierusalem heapes of stones.
Psalm 79:2	The dead bodies of thy seruats haue they giuen to be meat vnto foules of ye heauen: and the flesh of thy Saintes vnto the beastes of the earth.
Psalm 79:3	Their blood haue they shead like waters rounde about Ierusalem, and there was none to burie them.
Psalm 79:4	Wee are a reproche to our neighbours, euen a scorne and derision vnto them that are round about vs.
Psalm 79:5	Lord, howe long wilt thou be angrie, for euer? shall thy gelousie burne like fire?
Psalm 79:6	Powre out thy wrath vpon the heathen that haue not knowen thee, and vpon the kingdomes that haue not called vpon thy Name.
Psalm 79:7	For they haue deuoured Iaakob and made his dwelling place desolate.
Psalm 79:8	Remember not against vs the former iniquities, but make haste and let thy tender mercies preuent vs: for we are in great miserie.
Psalm 79:9	Helpe vs, O God of our saluation, for the glorie of thy Name, and deliuer vs, and be mercifull vnto our sinnes for thy Names sake.
Psalm 79:10	Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God? let him be knowen among the heathen in our sight by the vengeance of the blood of thy seruants that is shed.
Psalm 79:11	Let the sighing of the prisoners come before thee: according to thy mightie arme preserue the children of death,
Psalm 79:12	And render to our neighbours seuen folde into their bosome their reproche, wherewith they haue reproched thee, O Lord.
Psalm 79:13	So wee thy people, and sheepe of thy pasture shall praise thee for euer: and from generation to generation we will set foorth thy praise.
Psalm 80:1	To him that excelleth on Shoshannim Eduth. A Psalme committed to Asaph. Heare, O thou Shepheard of Israel, thou that leadest Ioseph like sheepe: shewe thy brightnes, thou that sittest betweene the Cherubims.
Psalm 80:2	Before Ephraim and Beniamin and Manasseh stirre vp thy strength, and come to helpe vs.
Psalm 80:3	Turne vs againe, O God, and cause thy face to shine that we may be saued.
Psalm 80:4	O Lord God of hostes, how long wilt thou be angrie against the prayer of thy people?
Psalm 80:5	Thou hast fedde them with the bread of teares, and giuen them teares to drinke with great measure.
Psalm 80:6	Thou hast made vs a strife vnto our neighbours, and our enemies laugh at vs among themselues.
Psalm 80:7	Turne vs againe, O God of hostes: cause thy face to shine, and we shalbe saued.
Psalm 80:8	Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it.
Psalm 80:9	Thou madest roume for it, and didest cause it to take roote, and it filled the land.
Psalm 80:10	The mountaines were couered with the shadowe of it, and the boughes thereof were like the goodly cedars.
Psalm 80:11	Shee stretched out her branches vnto the Sea, and her boughes vnto the Riuer.
Psalm 80:12	Why hast thou then broken downe her hedges, so that all they, which passe by the way, haue plucked her?
Psalm 80:13	The wilde bore out of the wood hath destroyed it, and the wilde beastes of the fielde haue eaten it vp.
Psalm 80:14	Returne we beseech thee, O God of hostes: looke downe from heauen and beholde and visite this vine,
Psalm 80:15	And the vineyard, that thy right hand hath planted, and the young vine, which thou madest strong for thy selfe.
Psalm 80:16	It is burnt with fire and cut downe: and they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance.
Psalm 80:17	Let thine hande be vpon the man of thy right hande, and vpon the sonne of man, whome thou madest strong for thine owne selfe.
Psalm 80:18	So will not we goe backe from thee: reuiue thou vs, and we shall call vpon thy Name.
Psalm 80:19	Turne vs againe, O Lord God of hostes: cause thy face to shine and we shalbe saued.
Psalm 81:1	To him that excelleth upon Gittith. A Psalme committed to Asaph. Sing ioyfully vnto God our strength: sing loude vnto the God of Iaakob.
Psalm 81:2	Take the song and bring forth the timbrel, the pleasant harpe with the viole.
Psalm 81:3	Blowe the trumpet in the newe moone, euen in the time appointed, at our feast day.
Psalm 81:4	For this is a statute for Israel, and a Law of the God of Iaakob.
Psalm 81:5	Hee set this in Ioseph for a testimonie, when hee came out of the land of Egypt, where I heard a language, that I vnderstoode not.
Psalm 81:6	I haue withdrawen his shoulder from the burden, and his handes haue left the pots.
Psalm 81:7	Thou calledst in affliction and I deliuered thee, and answered thee in the secret of the thunder: I prooued thee at the waters of Meribah. Selah.
Psalm 81:8	Heare, O my people, and I wil protest vnto thee: O Israel, if thou wilt hearken vnto me,
Psalm 81:9	Let there bee no strange god in thee, neither worship thou any strange god.
Psalm 81:10	For I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt: open thy mouth wide and I will fill it.
Psalm 81:11	But my people would not heare my voyce, and Israel would none of me.
Psalm 81:12	So I gaue them vp vnto the hardnesse of their heart, and they haue walked in their owne cousels.
Psalm 81:13	Oh that my people had hearkened vnto me, and Israel had walked in my wayes.
Psalm 81:14	I would soone haue humbled their enemies, and turned mine hand against their aduersaries.
Psalm 81:15	The haters of the Lord should haue bene subiect vnto him, and their time should haue endured for euer.
Psalm 81:16	And God would haue fedde them with the fatte of wheat, and with honie out of the rocke would I haue sufficed thee.
Psalm 82:1	A Psalme committed to Aspah. God standeth in the assemblie of gods: hee iudgeth among gods.
Psalm 82:2	How long wil ye iudge vniustly, and accept the persons of the wicked? Selah.
Psalm 82:3	Doe right to the poore and fatherlesse: doe iustice to the poore and needie.
Psalm 82:4	Deliuer the poore and needie: saue them from the hand of the wicked.
Psalm 82:5	They knowe not and vnderstand nothing: they walke in darkenes, albeit all the foundations of the earth be mooued.
Psalm 82:6	I haue said, Ye are gods, and ye all are children of the most High.
Psalm 82:7	But ye shall die as a man, and yee princes, shall fall like others.
Psalm 82:8	O God, arise, therefore iudge thou the earth: for thou shalt inherite all nations.
Psalm 83:1	A song, or Psalme committed to Asaph. Keep not thou silence, O God: bee not still, and cease not, O God.
Psalm 83:2	For lo, thine enemies make a tumult: and they that hate thee, haue lifted vp the head.
Psalm 83:3	They haue taken craftie counsell against thy people, and haue consulted against thy secret ones.
Psalm 83:4	They haue said, Come and let vs cut them off from being a nation: and let the name of Israel be no more in remembrance.
Psalm 83:5	For they haue consulted together in heart, and haue made a league against thee:
Psalm 83:6	The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites, Moab and the Agarims:
Psalm 83:7	Gebal and Ammon, and Amalech, the Philistims with the inhabitants of Tyrus:
Psalm 83:8	Asshur also is ioyned with them: they haue bene an arme to the children of Lot. Selah.
Psalm 83:9	Doe thou to them as vnto the Midianites: as to Sisera and as to Iabin at the riuer of Kishon.
Psalm 83:10	They perished at En-dor, and were dung for the earth.
Psalm 83:11	Make them, euen their princes like Oreb and like Zeeb: yea, all their princes like Zebah and like Zalmuna.
Psalm 83:12	Which haue said, Let vs take for our possession the habitations of God.
Psalm 83:13	O my God, make them like vnto a wheele, and as the stubble before the winde.
Psalm 83:14	As the fire burneth the forest, and as the flame setteth the mountaines on fire:
Psalm 83:15	So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraide with thy storme.
Psalm 83:16	Fill their faces with shame, that they may seeke thy Name, O Lord.
Psalm 83:17	Let them be confounded and troubled for euer: yea, let them be put to shame and perish,
Psalm 83:18	That they may knowe that thou, which art called Iehouah, art alone, euen the most High ouer all the earth.
Psalm 84:1	To him that excelleth upon Gittith. A Psalme committed to the sonnes of Korah. O Lord of hostes, howe amiable are thy Tabernacles!
Psalm 84:2	My soule longeth, yea, and fainteth for the courtes of the Lord: for mine heart and my flesh reioyce in the liuing God.
Psalm 84:3	Yea, the sparrowe hath found her an house, and the swallow a nest for her, where she may lay her yong: euen by thine altars, O Lord of hostes, my King and my God.
Psalm 84:4	Blessed are they that dwell in thine house: they will euer praise thee. Selah.
Psalm 84:5	Blessed is the man, whose strength is in thee, and in whose heart are thy wayes.
Psalm 84:6	They going through the vale of Baca, make welles therein: the raine also couereth the pooles.
Psalm 84:7	They goe from strength to strength, till euery one appeare before God in Zion.
Psalm 84:8	O Lord God of hostes, heare my prayer: hearken, O God of Iaakob. Selah.
Psalm 84:9	Beholde, O God, our shielde, and looke vpon the face of thine Anointed.
Psalm 84:10	For a day in thy courtes is better then a thousand other where: I had rather be a doore keeper in the House of my God, then to dwell in the Tabernacles of wickednesse.
Psalm 84:11	For the Lord God is the sunne and shielde vnto vs: the Lord will giue grace and glory, and no good thing will he withhold from them that walke vprightly.
Psalm 84:12	O Lord of hostes, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.
Psalm 85:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme committed to the sonnes of Korah. Lord, thou hast bene fauourable vnto thy land: thou hast brought againe the captiuitie of Iaakob.
Psalm 85:2	Thou hast forgiuen the iniquitie of thy people, and couered all their sinnes. Selah.
Psalm 85:3	Thou hast withdrawen all thine anger, and hast turned backe from the fiercenes of thy wrath.
Psalm 85:4	Turne vs, O God of our saluation, and release thine anger toward vs.
Psalm 85:5	Wilt thou be angry with vs for euer? and wilt thou prolong thy wrath from one generation to another?
Psalm 85:6	Wilt thou not turne againe and quicken vs, that thy people may reioyce in thee?
Psalm 85:7	Shew vs thy mercie, O Lord, and graunt vs thy saluation.
Psalm 85:8	I will hearken what the Lord God will say: for he will speake peace vnto his people, and to his Saintes, that they turne not againe to follie.
Psalm 85:9	Surely his saluation is neere to them that feare him, that glory may dwell in our land.
Psalm 85:10	Mercie and trueth shall meete: righteousnes and peace shall kisse one another.
Psalm 85:11	Trueth shall bud out of the earth, and righteousnes shall looke downe from heauen.
Psalm 85:12	Yea, the Lord shall giue good things, and our land shall giue her increase.
Psalm 85:13	Righteousnesse shall go before him, and shall set her steps in the way.
Psalm 86:1	A prayer of David. Incline thine eare, O Lord, and heare me: for I am poore and needy.
Psalm 86:2	Preserue thou my soule, for I am mercifull: my God, saue thou thy seruant, that trusteth in thee.
Psalm 86:3	Be mercifull vnto me, O Lord: for I crie vpon thee continually.
Psalm 86:4	Reioyce the soule of thy seruant: for vnto thee, O Lord, doe I lift vp my soule.
Psalm 86:5	For thou, Lord, art good and mercifull, and of great kindenes vnto all them, that call vpon thee.
Psalm 86:6	Giue eare, Lord, vnto my prayer, and hearken to the voyce of my supplication.
Psalm 86:7	In the day of my trouble I will call vpon thee: for thou hearest me.
Psalm 86:8	Among the gods there is none like thee, O Lord, and there is none that can doe like thy workes.
Psalm 86:9	All nations, whome thou hast made, shall come and worship before thee, O Lord, and shall glorifie thy Name.
Psalm 86:10	For thou art great and doest wonderous things: thou art God alone.
Psalm 86:11	Teach me thy way, O Lord, and I will walke in thy trueth: knit mine heart vnto thee, that I may feare thy Name.
Psalm 86:12	I wil prayse thee, O Lord my God, with all mine heart: yea, I wil glorifie thy Name for euer.
Psalm 86:13	For great is thy mercie toward me, and thou hast deliuered my soule from the lowest graue.
Psalm 86:14	O God, the proude are risen against me, and the assemblies of violent men haue sought my soule, and haue not set thee before them.
Psalm 86:15	But thou, O Lord, art a pitifull God and mercifull, slowe to anger and great in kindenes and trueth.
Psalm 86:16	Turne vnto me, and haue mercy vpon me: giue thy strength vnto thy seruant, and saue the sonne of thine handmayd.
Psalm 86:17	Shew a token of thy goodnes towarde me, that they which hate me, may see it, and be ashamed, because thou, O Lord, hast holpen me and comforted me.
Psalm 87:1	A Psalme or song committed to the sonnes of Korah. God layde his foundations among the holy mountaines.
Psalm 87:2	The Lord loueth the gates of Zion aboue all the habitations of Iaakob.
Psalm 87:3	Glorious things are spoken of thee, O citie of God. Selah.
Psalm 87:4	I will make mention of Rahab and Babel among them that knowe me: beholde Palestina and Tyrus with Ethiopia, There is he borne.
Psalm 87:5	And of Zion it shall be sayde, Many are borne in her: and he, euen the most High shall stablish her.
Psalm 87:6	The Lord shall count, when hee writeth the people, He was borne there. Selah.
Psalm 87:7	Aswell the singers as the players on instruments shall prayse thee: all my springs are in thee.
Psalm 88:1	A song or Psalme of Heman the Ezrahite to give instruction, committed to the sonnes of Korah for him that excelleth upon Malath Leannoth. O Lord God of my saluation, I cry day and night before thee.
Psalm 88:2	Let my prayer enter into thy presence: incline thine eare vnto my cry.
Psalm 88:3	For my soule is filled with euils, and my life draweth neere to the graue.
Psalm 88:4	I am counted among them that go downe vnto the pit, and am as a man without strength:
Psalm 88:5	Free among the dead, like the slaine lying in the graue, whome thou remembrest no more, and they are cut off from thine hand.
Psalm 88:6	Thou hast layde me in the lowest pit, in darkenes, and in the deepe.
Psalm 88:7	Thine indignation lyeth vpon me, and thou hast vexed me with all thy waues. Selah.
Psalm 88:8	Thou hast put away mine acquaintance farre from me, and made mee to be abhorred of them: I am shut vp, and cannot get foorth.
Psalm 88:9	Mine eye is sorowfull through mine affliction: Lord, I call dayly vpon thee: I stretch out mine hands vnto thee.
Psalm 88:10	Wilt thou shewe a miracle to the dead? or shall the dead rise and prayse thee? Selah.
Psalm 88:11	Shall thy louing kindenes be declared in the graue? or thy faithfulnes in destruction?
Psalm 88:12	Shall thy wonderous workes be knowen in the darke? and thy righteousnes in the land of obliuion?
Psalm 88:13	But vnto thee haue I cryed, O Lord, and early shall my prayer come before thee.
Psalm 88:14	Lord, why doest thou reiect my soule, and hidest thy face from me?
Psalm 88:15	I am afflicted and at the point of death: from my youth I suffer thy terrours, doubting of my life.
Psalm 88:16	Thine indignations goe ouer me, and thy feare hath cut me off.
Psalm 88:17	They came round about me dayly like water, and compassed me together.
Psalm 88:18	My louers and friends hast thou put away from me, and mine acquaintance hid themselues.
Psalm 89:1	A Psalme to give instruction, of Ethan the Ezrahite. I will sing the mercies of the Lord for euer: with my mouth will I declare thy trueth from generation to generation.
Psalm 89:2	For I said, Mercie shalbe set vp for euer: thy trueth shalt thou stablish in ye very heauens.
Psalm 89:3	I haue made a couenant with my chosen: I haue sworne to Dauid my seruant,
Psalm 89:4	Thy seede will I stablish for euer, and set vp thy throne from generation to generation. Selah.
Psalm 89:5	O Lord, euen the heauens shall prayse thy wonderous worke: yea, thy trueth in the Congregation of the Saints.
Psalm 89:6	For who is equall to the Lord in the heauen? and who is like the Lord among the sonnes of the gods?
Psalm 89:7	God is very terrible in the assemblie of the Saints, and to be reuerenced aboue all, that are about him.
Psalm 89:8	O Lord God of hostes, who is like vnto thee, which art a mightie Lord, and thy trueth is about thee?
Psalm 89:9	Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when the waues thereof arise, thou stillest them.
Psalm 89:10	Thou hast beaten downe Rahab as a man slaine: thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy mightie arme.
Psalm 89:11	The heauens are thine, the earth also is thine: thou hast layde the foundation of the world, and all that therein is.
Psalm 89:12	Thou hast created the North and the South: Tabor and Hermon shall reioyce in thy Name.
Psalm 89:13	Thou hast a mightie arme: strong is thine hand, and high is thy right hand.
Psalm 89:14	Righteousnesse and equitie are the stablishment of thy throne: mercy and trueth goe before thy face.
Psalm 89:15	Blessed is the people, that can reioyce in thee: they shall walke in the light of thy countenance, O Lord.
Psalm 89:16	They shall reioyce continually in thy Name, and in thy righteousnes shall they exalt them selues.
Psalm 89:17	For thou art the glory of their strength, and by thy fauour our hornes shall be exalted.
Psalm 89:18	For our shield apperteineth to the Lord, and our King to the holy one of Israel.
Psalm 89:19	Thou spakest then in a vision vnto thine Holy one, and saydest, I haue layde helpe vpon one that is mightie: I haue exalted one chosen out of the people.
Psalm 89:20	I haue found Dauid my seruant: with mine holy oyle haue I anoynted him.
Psalm 89:21	Therefore mine hande shall be established with him, and mine arme shall strengthen him.
Psalm 89:22	The enemie shall not oppresse him, neither shall the wicked hurt him.
Psalm 89:23	But I will destroy his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him.
Psalm 89:24	My trueth also and my mercie shall be with him, and in my Name shall his horne be exalted.
Psalm 89:25	I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the floods.
Psalm 89:26	He shall cry vnto mee, Thou art my Father, my God and the rocke of my saluation.
Psalm 89:27	Also I wil make him my first borne, higher then the Kings of the earth.
Psalm 89:28	My mercie will I keepe for him for euermore, and my couenant shall stande fast with him.
Psalm 89:29	His seede also will I make to endure for euer, and his throne as the dayes of heauen.
Psalm 89:30	But if his children forsake my Lawe, and walke not in my iudgements:
Psalm 89:31	If they breake my statutes, and keepe not my commandements:
Psalm 89:32	Then will I visite their transgression with the rod, and their iniquitie with strokes.
Psalm 89:33	Yet my louing kindnesse will I not take from him, neither will I falsifie my trueth.
Psalm 89:34	My couenant wil I not breake, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips.
Psalm 89:35	I haue sworne once by mine holines, that I will not fayle Dauid, saying,
Psalm 89:36	His seede shall endure for euer, and his throne shalbe as the sunne before me.
Psalm 89:37	He shalbe established for euermore as the moone, and as a faythfull witnes in the heauen. Selah.
Psalm 89:38	But thou hast reiected and abhorred, thou hast bene angry with thine Anoynted.
Psalm 89:39	Thou hast broken the couenant of thy seruant, and profaned his crowne, casting it on the ground.
Psalm 89:40	Thou hast broken downe all his walles: thou hast layd his fortresses in ruine.
Psalm 89:41	All that goe by the way, spoyle him: he is a rebuke vnto his neighbours.
Psalm 89:42	Thou hast set vp the right hand of his enemies, and made all his aduersaries to reioyce.
Psalm 89:43	Thou hast also turned the edge of his sworde, and hast not made him to stand in the battell.
Psalm 89:44	Thou hast caused his dignitie to decay, and cast his throne to the ground.
Psalm 89:45	The dayes of his youth hast thou shortned, and couered him with shame. Selah.
Psalm 89:46	Lord, howe long wilt thou hide thy selfe, for euer? shall thy wrath burne like fire?
Psalm 89:47	Remember of what time I am: wherefore shouldest thou create in vaine all the children of men?
Psalm 89:48	What man liueth, and shall not see death? shall hee deliuer his soule from the hande of the graue? Selah.
Psalm 89:49	Lord, where are thy former mercies, which thou swarest vnto Dauid in thy trueth?
Psalm 89:50	Remember, O Lord, the rebuke of thy seruants, which I beare in my bosome of all the mightie people.
Psalm 89:51	For thine enemies haue reproched thee, O Lord, because they haue reproched the footesteps of thine Anointed.
Psalm 89:52	Praised be the Lord for euermore. So be it, euen so be it.
Psalm 90:1	A prayer of Moses, the man of God. Lord, thou hast bene our habitation from generation to generation.
Psalm 90:2	Before the mountaines were made, and before thou hadst formed the earth, and the world, euen from euerlasting to euerlasting thou art our God.
Psalm 90:3	Thou turnest man to destruction: againe thou sayest, Returne, ye sonnes of Adam.
Psalm 90:4	For a thousande yeeres in thy sight are as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night.
Psalm 90:5	Thou hast ouerflowed them: they are as a sleepe: in the morning he groweth like the grasse:
Psalm 90:6	In the morning it florisheth and groweth, but in the euening it is cut downe and withereth.
Psalm 90:7	For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled.
Psalm 90:8	Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, and our secret sinnes in the light of thy countenance.
Psalm 90:9	For all our dayes are past in thine anger: we haue spent our yeeres as a thought.
Psalm 90:10	The time of our life is threescore yeeres and ten, and if they be of strength, fourescore yeeres: yet their strength is but labour and sorowe: for it is cut off quickly, and we flee away.
Psalm 90:11	Who knoweth the power of thy wrath? for according to thy feare is thine anger.
Psalm 90:12	Teach vs so to nomber our dayes, that we may apply our heartes vnto wisdome.
Psalm 90:13	Returne (O Lord, howe long?) and be pacified toward thy seruants.
Psalm 90:14	Fill vs with thy mercie in the morning: so shall we reioyce and be glad all our dayes.
Psalm 90:15	Comfort vs according to the dayes that thou hast afflicted vs, and according to the yeeres that we haue seene euill.
Psalm 90:16	Let thy worke bee seene towarde thy seruants, and thy glory vpon their children.
Psalm 90:17	And let the beautie of the Lord our God be vpon vs, and direct thou the worke of our hands vpon vs, euen direct the worke of our handes.
Psalm 91:1	Who so dwelleth in the secrete of the most High, shall abide in the shadowe of the Almightie.
Psalm 91:2	I will say vnto the Lord, O mine hope, and my fortresse: he is my God, in him will I trust.
Psalm 91:3	Surely he will deliuer thee from the snare of the hunter, and from the noysome pestilence.
Psalm 91:4	Hee will couer thee vnder his winges, and thou shalt be sure vnder his feathers: his trueth shall be thy shielde and buckler.
Psalm 91:5	Thou shalt not be afraide of the feare of the night, nor of the arrowe that flyeth by day:
Psalm 91:6	Nor of the pestilence that walketh in the darkenesse: nor of the plague that destroyeth at noone day.
Psalm 91:7	A thousand shall fall at thy side, and tenne thousand at thy right hand, but it shall not come neere thee.
Psalm 91:8	Doubtlesse with thine eyes shalt thou beholde and see the reward of the wicked.
Psalm 91:9	For thou hast said, The Lord is mine hope: thou hast set the most High for thy refuge.
Psalm 91:10	There shall none euill come vnto thee, neither shall any plague come neere thy tabernacle.
Psalm 91:11	For hee shall giue his Angels charge ouer thee to keepe thee in all thy wayes.
Psalm 91:12	They shall beare thee in their handes, that thou hurt not thy foote against a stone.
Psalm 91:13	Thou shalt walke vpon the lyon and aspe: the yong lyon and the dragon shalt thou treade vnder feete.
Psalm 91:14	Because he hath loued me, therefore will I deliuer him: I will exalt him because hee hath knowen my Name.
Psalm 91:15	He shall call vpon me, and I wil heare him: I will be with him in trouble: I will deliuer him, and glorifie him.
Psalm 91:16	With long life wil I satisfie him, and shew him my saluation.
Psalm 92:1	A Psalme or song for the Sabbath day. It is a good thing to praise the Lord, and to sing vnto thy Name, O most High,
Psalm 92:2	To declare thy louing kindenesse in the morning, and thy trueth in the night,
Psalm 92:3	Vpon an instrument of tenne strings, and vpon the viole with the song vpon the harpe.
Psalm 92:4	For thou, Lord, hast made mee glad by thy workes, and I wil reioyce in the workes of thine handes.
Psalm 92:5	O Lord, how glorious are thy workes! and thy thoughtes are very deepe.
Psalm 92:6	An vnwise man knoweth it not, and a foole doeth not vnderstand this,
Psalm 92:7	(When the wicked growe as the grasse, and all the workers of wickednesse doe flourish) that they shall be destroyed for euer.
Psalm 92:8	But thou, O Lord, art most High for euermore.
Psalm 92:9	For loe, thine enemies, O Lord: for loe, thine enemies shall perish: all the workers of iniquitie shall be destroyed.
Psalm 92:10	But thou shalt exalt mine horne, like the vnicornes, and I shalbe anoynted with fresh oyle.
Psalm 92:11	Mine eye also shall see my desire against mine enemies: and mine eares shall heare my wish against the wicked, that rise vp against me.
Psalm 92:12	The righteous shall flourish like a palme tree, and shall grow like a Cedar in Lebanon.
Psalm 92:13	Such as bee planted in the house of the Lord, shall flourish in the courtes of our God.
Psalm 92:14	They shall still bring foorth fruite in their age: they shall be fat and flourishing,
Psalm 92:15	To declare that the Lord my rocke is righteous, and that none iniquitie is in him.
Psalm 93:1	The Lord reigneth, and is clothed with maiestie: the Lord is clothed, and girded with power: the world also shall be established, that it cannot be mooued.
Psalm 93:2	Thy throne is established of olde: thou art from euerlasting.
Psalm 93:3	The floodes haue lifted vp, O Lord: the floodes haue lifted vp their voyce: the floods lift vp their waues.
Psalm 93:4	The waues of ye sea are marueilous through the noyse of many waters, yet the Lord on High is more mightie.
Psalm 93:5	Thy testimonies are very sure: holinesse becommeth thine House, O Lord, for euer.
Psalm 94:1	O Lord God the auenger, O God the auenger, shewe thy selfe clearely.
Psalm 94:2	Exalt thy selfe, O Iudge of the worlde, and render a reward to the proude.
Psalm 94:3	Lord how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph?
Psalm 94:4	They prate and speake fiercely: all the workers of iniquitie vaunt themselues.
Psalm 94:5	They smite downe thy people, O Lord, and trouble thine heritage.
Psalm 94:6	They slay the widowe and the stranger, and murder the fatherlesse.
Psalm 94:7	Yet they say, The Lord shall not see: neither will the God of Iaakob regard it.
Psalm 94:8	Vnderstande ye vnwise among the people: and ye fooles, when will ye be wise?
Psalm 94:9	Hee that planted the eare, shall hee not heare? or he that formed the eye, shall he not see?
Psalm 94:10	Or he that chastiseth the nations, shall he not correct? hee that teacheth man knowledge, shall he not knowe?
Psalm 94:11	The Lord knoweth the thoughtes of man, that they are vanitie.
Psalm 94:12	Blessed is the man, whom thou chastisest, O Lord, and teachest him in thy Lawe,
Psalm 94:13	That thou mayest giue him rest from the dayes of euill, whiles the pitte is digged for the wicked.
Psalm 94:14	Surely the Lord will not faile his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.
Psalm 94:15	For iudgement shall returne to iustice, and all the vpright in heart shall follow after it.
Psalm 94:16	Who will rise vp with me against the wicked? or who will take my part against the workers of iniquitie?
Psalm 94:17	If the Lord had not holpen me, my soule had almost dwelt in silence.
Psalm 94:18	When I said, My foote slideth, thy mercy, O Lord, stayed me.
Psalm 94:19	In the multitude of my thoughts in mine heart, thy comfortes haue reioyced my soule.
Psalm 94:20	Hath the throne of iniquitie fellowship with thee, which forgeth wrong for a Lawe?
Psalm 94:21	They gather them together against the soule of the righteous, and condemne the innocent blood.
Psalm 94:22	But the Lord is my refuge, and my God is the rocke of mine hope.
Psalm 94:23	And hee will recompence them their wickednes, and destroy them in their owne malice: yea, the Lord our God shall destroy them.
Psalm 95:1	Come, let vs reioyce vnto the Lord: let vs sing aloude vnto the rocke of our saluation.
Psalm 95:2	Let vs come before his face with praise: let vs sing loude vnto him with Psalmes.
Psalm 95:3	For the Lord is a great God, and a great King aboue all gods.
Psalm 95:4	In whose hande are the deepe places of the earth, and the heightes of the mountaines are his:
Psalm 95:5	To whome the Sea belongeth: for hee made it, and his handes formed the dry land.
Psalm 95:6	Come, let vs worship and fall downe, and kneele before the Lord our maker.
Psalm 95:7	For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheepe of his hande: to day, if ye will heare his voyce,
Psalm 95:8	Harden not your heart, as in Meribah, and as in the day of Massah in the wildernesse.
Psalm 95:9	Where your fathers tempted me, proued me, though they had seene my worke.
Psalm 95:10	Fourtie yeeres haue I contended with this generation, and said, They are a people that erre in heart, for they haue not knowen my wayes.
Psalm 95:11	Wherefore I sware in my wrath, saying, Surely they shall not enter into my rest.
Psalm 96:1	Sing vnto the Lord a newe song: sing vnto the Lord, all the earth.
Psalm 96:2	Sing vnto the Lord, and prayse his Name: declare his saluation from day to day.
Psalm 96:3	Declare his glory among all nations, and his wonders among all people.
Psalm 96:4	For the Lord is great and much to be praysed: he is to be feared aboue all gods.
Psalm 96:5	For all the gods of the people are idoles: but the Lord made the heauens.
Psalm 96:6	Strength and glory are before him: power and beautie are in his Sanctuarie.
Psalm 96:7	Giue vnto the Lord, ye families of the people: giue vnto the Lord glory and power.
Psalm 96:8	Giue vnto the Lord the glory of his Name: bring an offering, and enter into his courtes.
Psalm 96:9	Worship the Lord in the glorious Sanctuarie: tremble before him all the earth.
Psalm 96:10	Say among the nations, The Lord reigneth: surely the world shalbe stable, and not moue, and he shall iudge the people in righteousnesse.
Psalm 96:11	Let the heauens reioyce, and let the earth be glad: let the sea roare, and all that therein is.
Psalm 96:12	Let the field be ioyfull, and all that is in it: let all the trees of the wood then reioyce
Psalm 96:13	Before the Lord: for he commeth, for he cometh to iudge the earth: he wil iudge the world with righteousnes, and the people in his trueth.
Psalm 97:1	The Lord reigneth: let the earth reioyce: let the multitude of the yles be glad.
Psalm 97:2	Cloudes and darkenes are round about him: righteousnesse and iudgement are the foundation of his throne.
Psalm 97:3	There shall goe a fire before him, and burne vp his enemies round about.
Psalm 97:4	His lightnings gaue light vnto the worlde: the earth sawe it and was afraide.
Psalm 97:5	The mountaines melted like waxe at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth.
Psalm 97:6	The heauens declare his righteousnes, and all the people see his glory.
Psalm 97:7	Confounded be all they that serue grauen images, and that glory in idoles: worship him all ye gods.
Psalm 97:8	Zion heard of it, and was glad: and the daughters of Iudah reioyced, because of thy iudgements, O Lord.
Psalm 97:9	For thou, Lord, art most High aboue all the earth: thou art much exalted aboue all gods.
Psalm 97:10	Ye that loue the Lord, hate euill: he preserueth the soules of his Saints: hee will deliuer them from the hand of the wicked.
Psalm 97:11	Light is sowen for the righteous, and ioy for the vpright in heart.
Psalm 97:12	Reioyce ye righteous in the Lord, and giue thankes for his holy remembrance.
Psalm 98:1	A Psalme. Sing vnto the Lord a newe song: for hee hath done marueilous things: his right hand, and his holy arme haue gotten him the victorie.
Psalm 98:2	The Lord declared his saluation: his righteousnes hath he reueiled in the sight of ye nations.
Psalm 98:3	He hath remembred his mercy and his trueth toward the house of Israel: all the ends of the earth haue seene the saluation of our God.
Psalm 98:4	All the earth, sing ye loude vnto the Lord: crie out and reioyce, and sing prayses.
Psalm 98:5	Sing prayse to the Lord vpon the harpe, euen vpon the harpe with a singing voyce.
Psalm 98:6	With shalmes and sound of trumpets sing loude before the Lord the King.
Psalm 98:7	Let the sea roare, and all that therein is, the world, and they that dwell therein.
Psalm 98:8	Let the floods clap their hands, and let the mountaines reioyce together
Psalm 98:9	Before the Lord: for he is come to iudge the earth: with righteousnesse shall hee iudge the world, and the people with equitie.
Psalm 99:1	The Lord reigneth, let the people tremble: he sitteth betweene the Cherubims, let the earth be moued.
Psalm 99:2	The Lord is great in Zion, and he is high aboue all the people.
Psalm 99:3	They shall prayse thy great and fearefull Name (for it is holy)
Psalm 99:4	And the Kings power, that loueth iudgement: for thou hast prepared equitie: thou hast executed iudgement and iustice in Iaakob.
Psalm 99:5	Exalt the Lord our God, and fall downe before his footestoole: for he is holy.
Psalm 99:6	Moses and Aaron were among his Priests, and Samuel among such as call vpon his Name: these called vpon the Lord, and he heard them.
Psalm 99:7	Hee spake vnto them in the cloudie pillar: they kept his testimonies, and the Lawe that he gaue them.
Psalm 99:8	Thou heardest them, O Lord our God: thou wast a fauourable God vnto them, though thou didst take vengeance for their inuentions.
Psalm 99:9	Exalt the Lord our God, and fall downe before his holy Mountaine: for the Lord our God is holy.
Psalm 100:1	A Psalme of Praise. Sing ye loude vnto the Lord, all the earth.
Psalm 100:2	Serue the Lord with gladnes: come before him with ioyfulnes.
Psalm 100:3	Knowe ye that euen the Lord is God: hee hath made vs, and not we our selues: we are his people, and the sheepe of his pasture.
Psalm 100:4	Enter into his gates with prayse, and into his courts with reioycing: prayse him and blesse his Name.
Psalm 100:5	For the Lord is good: his mercy is euerlasting, and his trueth is from generation to generation.
Psalm 101:1	A Psalme of David. I will sing mercie and iudgement: vnto thee, O Lord, will I sing.
Psalm 101:2	I will doe wisely in the perfite way, till thou commest to me: I will walke in the vprightnes of mine heart in the middes of mine house.
Psalm 101:3	I wil set no wicked thing before mine eyes: I hate the worke of them that fall away: it shall not cleaue vnto me.
Psalm 101:4	A froward heart shall depart from me: I will knowe none euill.
Psalm 101:5	Him that priuily slandereth his neighbour, wil I destroy: him that hath a proude looke and hie heart, I cannot suffer.
Psalm 101:6	Mine eyes shalbe vnto the faithfull of the lande, that they may dwell with me: he that walketh in a perfite way, he shall serue me.
Psalm 101:7	There shall no deceitful person dwell within mine house: he that telleth lyes, shall not remaine in my sight.
Psalm 101:8	Betimes will I destroy all the wicked of the land, that I may cut off all the workers of iniquitie from the Citie of the Lord.
Psalm 102:1	A prayer of the afflicted, when he shall be in distresse, and pour forth his meditation before the Lord. O Lord, heare my prayer, and let my crye come vnto thee.
Psalm 102:2	Hide not thy face from me in the time of my trouble: incline thine eares vnto me: when I call, make haste to heare me.
Psalm 102:3	For my dayes are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burnt like an herthe.
Psalm 102:4	Mine heart is smitten and withereth like grasse, because I forgate to eate my bread.
Psalm 102:5	For the voyce of my groning my bones doe cleaue to my skinne.
Psalm 102:6	I am like a pelicane of the wildernesse: I am like an owle of the deserts.
Psalm 102:7	I watch and am as a sparrowe alone vpon the house top.
Psalm 102:8	Mine enemies reuile me dayly, and they that rage against me, haue sworne against me.
Psalm 102:9	Surely I haue eaten asshes as bread, and mingled my drinke with weeping,
Psalm 102:10	Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast heaued me vp, and cast me downe.
Psalm 102:11	My dayes are like a shadowe that fadeth, and I am withered like grasse.
Psalm 102:12	But thou, O Lord, doest remaine for euer, and thy remembrance from generation to generation.
Psalm 102:13	Thou wilt arise and haue mercy vpon Zion: for the time to haue mercie thereon, for the appointed time is come.
Psalm 102:14	For thy seruants delite in the stones thereof, and haue pitie on the dust thereof.
Psalm 102:15	Then the heathen shall feare the Name of the Lord, and all the Kings of the earth thy glory,
Psalm 102:16	When the Lord shall build vp Zion, and shall appeare in his glory,
Psalm 102:17	And shall turne vnto the prayer of the desolate, and not despise their prayer.
Psalm 102:18	This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people, which shalbe created, shall prayse the Lord.
Psalm 102:19	For he hath looked downe from the height of his Sanctuarie: out of the heauen did the Lord beholde the earth,
Psalm 102:20	That he might heare the mourning of the prisoner, and deliuer the children of death:
Psalm 102:21	That they may declare the Name of the Lord in Zion, and his prayse in Ierusalem,
Psalm 102:22	When the people shalbe gathered together, and the kingdomes to serue the Lord.
Psalm 102:23	He abated my strength in the way, and shortened my dayes.
Psalm 102:24	And I sayd, O my God, take me not away in the middes of my dayes: thy yeeres endure from generation to generation.
Psalm 102:25	Thou hast aforetime layde the foundation of the earth, and the heauens are the worke of thine hands.
Psalm 102:26	They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: euen they all shall waxe olde as doeth a garment: as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed.
Psalm 102:27	But thou art the same, and thy yeeres shall not fayle.
Psalm 102:28	The children of thy seruants shall continue, and their seede shall stand fast in thy sight.
Psalm 103:1	A Psalme of David. My soule, prayse thou the Lord, and all that is within me, prayse his holy Name.
Psalm 103:2	My soule, prayse thou the Lord, and forget not all his benefites.
Psalm 103:3	Which forgiueth all thine iniquitie, and healeth all thine infirmities.
Psalm 103:4	Which redeemeth thy life from the graue, and crowneth thee with mercy and compassions.
Psalm 103:5	Which satisfieth thy mouth with good things: and thy youth is renued like the eagles.
Psalm 103:6	The Lord executeth righteousnes and iudgement to all that are oppressed.
Psalm 103:7	He made his wayes knowen vnto Moses, and his workes vnto the children of Israel.
Psalm 103:8	The Lord is full of compassion and mercie, slowe to anger and of great kindnesse.
Psalm 103:9	He will not alway chide, neither keepe his anger for euer.
Psalm 103:10	He hath not dealt with vs after our sinnes, nor rewarded vs according to our iniquities.
Psalm 103:11	For as high as the heauen is aboue ye earth, so great is his mercie toward them that feare him.
Psalm 103:12	As farre as the East is from the West: so farre hath he remooued our sinnes from vs.
Psalm 103:13	As a father hath compassion on his children, so hath the Lord compassion on them that feare him.
Psalm 103:14	For he knoweth whereof we be made: he remembreth that we are but dust.
Psalm 103:15	The dayes of man are as grasse: as a flowre of the fielde, so florisheth he.
Psalm 103:16	For the winde goeth ouer it, and it is gone, and the place thereof shall knowe it no more.
Psalm 103:17	But the louing kindnesse of the Lord endureth for euer and euer vpon them that feare him, and his righteousnes vpon childrens children,
Psalm 103:18	Vnto them that keepe his couenant, and thinke vpon his commandements to doe them.
Psalm 103:19	The Lord hath prepared his throne in heauen, and his Kingdome ruleth ouer all.
Psalm 103:20	Prayse the Lord, ye his Angels, that excell in strength, that doe his commandement in obeying the voyce of his worde.
Psalm 103:21	Prayse the Lord, all ye his hostes, ye his seruants that doe his pleasure.
Psalm 103:22	Prayse the Lord, all ye his workes, in all places of his dominion: my soule, prayse thou the Lord.
Psalm 104:1	My soule, prayse thou the Lord: O Lord my God, thou art exceeding great, thou art clothed with glorie and honour.
Psalm 104:2	Which couereth himselfe with light as with a garment, and spreadeth the heauens like a curtaine.
Psalm 104:3	Which layeth the beames of his chambers in the waters, and maketh the cloudes his chariot, and walketh vpon the wings of the winde.
Psalm 104:4	Which maketh his spirits his messengers, and a flaming fire his ministers.
Psalm 104:5	He set the earth vpon her foundations, so that it shall neuer moue.
Psalm 104:6	Thou coueredst it with the deepe as with a garment: the waters woulde stand aboue the mountaines.
Psalm 104:7	But at thy rebuke they flee: at the voyce of thy thunder they haste away.
Psalm 104:8	And the mountaines ascend, and the valleis descend to the place which thou hast established for them.
Psalm 104:9	But thou hast set them a bounde, which they shall not passe: they shall not returne to couer the earth.
Psalm 104:10	He sendeth the springs into the valleis, which runne betweene the mountaines.
Psalm 104:11	They shall giue drinke to all the beasts of the fielde, and the wilde asses shall quench their thirst.
Psalm 104:12	By these springs shall the foules of the heauen dwell, and sing among the branches.
Psalm 104:13	He watereth the mountaines from his chambers, and the earth is filled with the fruite of thy workes.
Psalm 104:14	He causeth grasse to growe for the cattell, and herbe for the vse of man, that he may bring forth bread out of the earth,
Psalm 104:15	And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, and oyle to make the face to shine, and bread that strengtheneth mans heart.
Psalm 104:16	The high trees are satisfied, euen the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted,
Psalm 104:17	That ye birdes may make their nestes there: the storke dwelleth in the firre trees.
Psalm 104:18	The high mountaines are for the goates: the rockes are a refuge for the conies.
Psalm 104:19	He appoynted the moone for certaine seasons: the sunne knoweth his going downe.
Psalm 104:20	Thou makest darkenesse, and it is night, wherein all the beastes of the forest creepe forth.
Psalm 104:21	The lions roare after their praye, and seeke their meate at God.
Psalm 104:22	When the sunne riseth, they retire, and couche in their dennes.
Psalm 104:23	Then goeth man forth to his worke, and to his labour vntill the euening.
Psalm 104:24	O Lord, howe manifolde are thy workes! in wisdome hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches.
Psalm 104:25	So is this sea great and wide: for therein are things creeping innumerable, both small beastes and great.
Psalm 104:26	There goe the shippes, yea, that Liuiathan, whom thou hast made to play therein.
Psalm 104:27	All these waite vpon thee, that thou maiest giue them foode in due season.
Psalm 104:28	Thou giuest it to them, and they gather it: thou openest thine hand, and they are filled with good things.
Psalm 104:29	But if thou hide thy face, they are troubled: if thou take away their breath, they dye and returne to their dust.
Psalm 104:30	Againe if thou send forth thy spirit, they are created, and thou renuest the face of the earth.
Psalm 104:31	Glory be to the Lord for euer: let the Lord reioyce in his workes.
Psalm 104:32	He looketh on the earth and it trembleth: he toucheth the mountaines, and they smoke.
Psalm 104:33	I will sing vnto the Lord all my life: I will prayse my God, while I liue.
Psalm 104:34	Let my wordes be acceptable vnto him: I will reioyce in the Lord.
Psalm 104:35	Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and the wicked till there be no more: O my soule, prayse thou the Lord. Prayse ye the Lord.
Psalm 105:1	Praise the Lord, and call vpon his Name: declare his workes among the people.
Psalm 105:2	Sing vnto him, sing prayse vnto him, and talke of all his wonderous workes.
Psalm 105:3	Reioyce in his holy Name: let the heart of them that seeke the Lord, reioyce.
Psalm 105:4	Seeke the Lord and his strength: seeke his face continually.
Psalm 105:5	Remember his marueilous woorkes, that he hath done, his wonders and the iudgements of his mouth,
Psalm 105:6	Ye seede of Abraham his seruant, ye children of Iaakob, which are his elect.
Psalm 105:7	He is the Lord our God: his iudgements are through all the earth.
Psalm 105:8	He hath alway remembred his couenant and promise, that he made to a thousand generations,
Psalm 105:9	Euen that which he made with Abraham, and his othe vnto Izhak:
Psalm 105:10	And since hath confirmed it to Iaakob for a lawe, and to Israel for an euerlasting couenant,
Psalm 105:11	Saying, Vnto thee will I giue the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance.
Psalm 105:12	Albeit they were fewe in nomber, yea, very fewe, and strangers in the land,
Psalm 105:13	And walked about from nation to nation, from one kingdome to another people,
Psalm 105:14	Yet suffered he no man to doe them wrong, but reprooued Kings for their sakes, saying,
Psalm 105:15	Touche not mine anointed, and doe my Prophets no harme.
Psalm 105:16	Moreouer, he called a famine vpon ye land, and vtterly brake the staffe of bread.
Psalm 105:17	But he sent a man before them: Ioseph was solde for a slaue.
Psalm 105:18	They helde his feete in the stockes, and he was laide in yrons,
Psalm 105:19	Vntill his appointed time came, and the counsell of the Lord had tryed him.
Psalm 105:20	The King sent and loosed him: euen the Ruler of the people deliuered him.
Psalm 105:21	He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance,
Psalm 105:22	That he shoulde binde his princes vnto his will, and teach his Ancients wisedome.
Psalm 105:23	Then Israel came to Egypt, and Iaakob was a stranger in the land of Ham.
Psalm 105:24	And he increased his people exceedingly, and made them stronger then their oppressours.
Psalm 105:25	He turned their heart to hate his people, and to deale craftily with his seruants.
Psalm 105:26	Then sent he Moses his seruant, and Aaron whom he had chosen.
Psalm 105:27	They shewed among them the message of his signes, and wonders in the land of Ham.
Psalm 105:28	He sent darkenesse, and made it darke: and they were not disobedient vnto his commission.
Psalm 105:29	He turned their waters into blood, and slewe their fish.
Psalm 105:30	Their land brought foorth frogs, euen in their Kings chambers.
Psalm 105:31	He spake, and there came swarmes of flies and lice in all their quarters.
Psalm 105:32	He gaue them haile for raine, and flames of fire in their land.
Psalm 105:33	He smote their vines also and their figge trees, and brake downe the trees in their coastes.
Psalm 105:34	He spake, and the grashoppers came, and caterpillers innumerable,
Psalm 105:35	And did eate vp all the grasse in their land, and deuoured the fruite of their ground.
Psalm 105:36	He smote also all the first borne in their land, euen the beginning of all their strength.
Psalm 105:37	He brought them forth also with siluer and golde, and there was none feeble among their tribes.
Psalm 105:38	Egypt was glad at their departing: for the feare of them had fallen vpon them.
Psalm 105:39	He spred a cloude to be a couering, and fire to giue light in the night.
Psalm 105:40	They asked, and he brought quailes, and he filled them with the bread of heauen.
Psalm 105:41	He opened the rocke, and the waters flowed out, and ranne in the drye places like a riuer.
Psalm 105:42	For he remembred his holy promise to Abraham his seruant,
Psalm 105:43	And he brought forth his people with ioy, and his chosen with gladnesse,
Psalm 105:44	And gaue them the lands of the heathen, and they tooke the labours of the people in possession,
Psalm 105:45	That they might keepe his statutes, and obserue his Lawes. Prayse ye the Lord.
Psalm 106:1	Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the Lord because he is good, for his mercie endureth for euer.
Psalm 106:2	Who can expresse the noble actes of the Lord, or shewe forth all his prayse?
Psalm 106:3	Blessed are they that keepe iudgement, and doe righteousnesse at all times.
Psalm 106:4	Remember me, O Lord, with the fauour of thy people: visite me with thy saluation,
Psalm 106:5	That I may see the felicitie of thy chosen, and reioyce in the ioy of thy people, and glorie with thine inheritance.
Psalm 106:6	We haue sinned with our fathers: we haue committed iniquitie, and done wickedly.
Psalm 106:7	Our fathers vnderstoode not thy wonders in Egypt, neither remembred they the multitude of thy mercies, but rebelled at the Sea, euen at the red sea.
Psalm 106:8	Neuerthelesse he saued them for his Names sake, that he might make his power to be knowen.
Psalm 106:9	And he rebuked the red Sea, and it was dryed vp, and he led them in the deepe, as in the wildernesse.
Psalm 106:10	And he saued them from ye aduersaries hand, and deliuered them from ye hand of the enemie.
Psalm 106:11	And the waters couered their oppressours: not one of them was left.
Psalm 106:12	Then beleeued they his wordes, and sang prayse vnto him.
Psalm 106:13	But incontinently they forgate his workes: they wayted not for his counsell,
Psalm 106:14	But lusted with concupiscence in the wildernes, and tempted God in the desert.
Psalm 106:15	Then he gaue them their desire: but he sent leannesse into their soule.
Psalm 106:16	They enuied Moses also in the tentes, and Aaron the holy one of the Lord.
Psalm 106:17	Therefore the earth opened and swallowed vp Dathan, and couered the companie of Abiram.
Psalm 106:18	And the fire was kindled in their assembly: the flame burnt vp the wicked.
Psalm 106:19	They made a calfe in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image.
Psalm 106:20	Thus they turned their glory into the similitude of a bullocke, that eateth grasse.
Psalm 106:21	They forgate God their Sauiour, which had done great things in Egypt,
Psalm 106:22	Wonderous woorkes in the lande of Ham, and fearefull things by the red Sea.
Psalm 106:23	Therefore he minded to destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stand in the breach before him to turne away his wrath, least he shoulde destroy them.
Psalm 106:24	Also they contemned that pleasant land, and beleeued not his worde,
Psalm 106:25	But murmured in their tentes, and hearkened not vnto the voice of the Lord.
Psalm 106:26	Therefore hee lifted vp his hande against them, to destroy them in the wildernesse,
Psalm 106:27	And to destroy their seede among the nations, and to scatter them throughout the countries.
Psalm 106:28	They ioyned themselues also vnto Baalpeor, and did eate the offrings of the dead.
Psalm 106:29	Thus they prouoked him vnto anger with their owne inuentions, and the plague brake in vpon them.
Psalm 106:30	But Phinehas stoode vp, and executed iudgement, and the plague was staied.
Psalm 106:31	And it was imputed vnto him for righteousnes from generation to generation for euer.
Psalm 106:32	They angred him also at the waters of Meribah, so that Moses was punished for their sakes,
Psalm 106:33	Because they vexed his spirite, so that hee spake vnaduisedly with his lippes.
Psalm 106:34	Neither destroied they the people, as the Lord had commanded them,
Psalm 106:35	But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their workes,
Psalm 106:36	And serued their idoles, which were their ruine.
Psalm 106:37	Yea, they offered their sonnes, and their daughters vnto deuils,
Psalm 106:38	And shed innocent blood, euen the blood of their sonnes, and of their daughters, whome they offred vnto the idoles of Canaan, and the lande was defiled with blood.
Psalm 106:39	Thus were they steined with their owne woorkes, and went a whoring with their owne inuentions.
Psalm 106:40	Therefore was the wrath of the Lord kindled against his people, and he abhorred his owne inheritance.
Psalm 106:41	And hee gaue them into the hande of the heathen: and they that hated them, were lordes ouer them.
Psalm 106:42	Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were humbled vnder their hand.
Psalm 106:43	Many a time did hee deliuer them, but they prouoked him by their counsels: therefore they were brought downe by their iniquitie.
Psalm 106:44	Yet hee sawe when they were in affliction, and he heard their crie.
Psalm 106:45	And he remembred his couenant towarde them and repented according to the multitude of his mercies,
Psalm 106:46	And gaue them fauour in the sight of all them that lead them captiues.
Psalm 106:47	Saue vs, O Lord our God, and gather vs from among the heathen, that we may praise thine holy Name, and glorie in thy praise.
Psalm 106:48	Blessed be the Lord God of Israel for euer and euer, and let all the people say, So be it. Praise yee the Lord.
Psalm 107:1	Praise the Lord, because he is good: for his mercie endureth for euer.
Psalm 107:2	Let them, which haue bene redeemed of the Lord, shewe how he hath deliuered them from the hand of the oppressour,
Psalm 107:3	And gathered them out of the lands, from the East and from the West, from the North and from the South.
Psalm 107:4	When they wandered in the desert and wildernesse out of the waie, and founde no citie to dwell in,
Psalm 107:5	Both hungrie and thirstie, their soule fainted in them.
Psalm 107:6	Then they cried vnto the Lord in their trouble, and he deliuered them from their distresse,
Psalm 107:7	And led them forth by the right way, that they might goe to a citie of habitation.
Psalm 107:8	Let them therefore confesse before ye Lord his louing kindnesse, and his wonderfull woorkes before the sonnes of men.
Psalm 107:9	For he satisfied the thirstie soule, and filled the hungrie soule with goodnesse.
Psalm 107:10	They that dwell in darkenesse and in the shadowe of death, being bounde in miserie and yron,
Psalm 107:11	Because they rebelled against the wordes of the Lord, and despised the counsell of the most High,
Psalm 107:12	When he humbled their heart with heauines, then they fell downe and there was no helper.
Psalm 107:13	Then they cried vnto the Lord in their trouble, and he deliuered them from their distresse.
Psalm 107:14	He brought them out of darkenes, and out of the shadowe of death, and brake their bandes asunder.
Psalm 107:15	Let them therefore cofesse before the Lord his louing kindnesse, and his wonderfull woorkes before the sonnes of men.
Psalm 107:16	For hee hath broken the gates of brasse, and brast the barres of yron asunder.
Psalm 107:17	Fooles by reason of their transgression, and because of their iniquities are afflicted.
Psalm 107:18	Their soule abhorreth al meat, and they are brought to deaths doore.
Psalm 107:19	Then they crie vnto the Lord in their trouble, and he deliuereth them from their distresse.
Psalm 107:20	He sendeth his worde and healeth them, and deliuereth them from their graues.
Psalm 107:21	Let them therefore cofesse before the Lord his louing kindnesse, and his wonderful workes before the sonnes of men,
Psalm 107:22	And let them offer sacrifices of praise, and declare his workes with reioycing.
Psalm 107:23	They that goe downe to the sea in ships, and occupie by the great waters,
Psalm 107:24	They see the woorkes of the Lord, and his wonders in the deepe.
Psalm 107:25	For he commaundeth and raiseth the stormie winde, and it lifteth vp the waues thereof.
Psalm 107:26	They mount vp to the heauen, and descend to ye deepe, so that their soule melteth for trouble.
Psalm 107:27	They are tossed to and from, and stagger like a drunken man, and all their cunning is gone.
Psalm 107:28	Then they crie vnto the Lord in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresse.
Psalm 107:29	He turneth the storme to calme, so that the waues thereof are still.
Psalm 107:30	When they are quieted, they are glad, and hee bringeth them vnto the hauen, where they would be.
Psalm 107:31	Let them therfore confesse before the Lord his louing kindnesse, and his wonderfull woorkes before the sonnes of men.
Psalm 107:32	And let them exalt him in the Congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the Elders.
Psalm 107:33	He turneth the floodes into a wildernesse, and the springs of waters into drinesse,
Psalm 107:34	And a fruitfull land into barrennes for the wickednes of them that dwell therein.
Psalm 107:35	Againe hee turneth the wildernesse into pooles of water, and the drie lande into water springs.
Psalm 107:36	And there he placeth the hungrie, and they builde a citie to dwell in,
Psalm 107:37	And sowe the fieldes, and plant vineyardes, which bring foorth fruitfull increase.
Psalm 107:38	For he blesseth them, and they multiplie exceedingly, and he diminisheth not their cattell.
Psalm 107:39	Againe men are diminished, and brought lowe by oppression, euill and sorowe.
Psalm 107:40	He powreth contempt vpon princes, and causeth them to erre in desert places out of the way.
Psalm 107:41	Yet he raiseth vp the poore out of miserie, and maketh him families like a flocke of sheepe.
Psalm 107:42	The righteous shall see it, and reioyce, and all iniquitie shall stoppe her mouth.
Psalm 107:43	Who is wise that hee may obserue these things? for they shall vnderstand the louing kindnesse of the Lord.
Psalm 108:1	A song or Psalme of David. O God, mine heart is prepared, so is my tongue: I will sing and giue praise.
Psalm 108:2	Awake viole and harpe: I will awake early.
Psalm 108:3	I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people, and I wil sing vnto thee among the nations.
Psalm 108:4	For thy mercy is great aboue the heauens, and thy trueth vnto the clouds.
Psalm 108:5	Exalt thy self, O God, aboue the heauens, and let thy glorie be vpon all the earth,
Psalm 108:6	That thy beloued may be deliuered: helpe with thy right hand and heare me.
Psalm 108:7	God hath spoken in his holinesse: therefore I will reioyce, I shall deuide Shechem and measure the valley of Succoth.
Psalm 108:8	Gilead shalbe mine, and Manasseh shalbe mine: Ephraim also shalbe the strength of mine head: Iuda is my lawgiuer.
Psalm 108:9	Moab shalbe my washpot: ouer Edom wil I cast out my shoe: vpon Palestina wil I triumph.
Psalm 108:10	Who will leade mee into the strong citie? who will bring me vnto Edom?
Psalm 108:11	Wilt not thou, O God, which haddest forsaken vs, and diddest not goe foorth, O God, with our armies?
Psalm 108:12	Giue vs helpe against trouble: for vaine is the helpe of man.
Psalm 108:13	Through God we shall doe valiantly: for he shall treade downe our enemies.
Psalm 109:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of David. Holde not thy tongue, O God of my praise.
Psalm 109:2	For the mouth of the wicked, and the mouth full of deceite are opened vpon me: they haue spoken to me with a lying tongue.
Psalm 109:3	They compassed me about also with words of hatred, and fought against me without a cause.
Psalm 109:4	For my friendship they were mine aduersaries, but I gaue my selfe to praier.
Psalm 109:5	And they haue rewarded me euil for good, and hatred for my friendship.
Psalm 109:6	Set thou the wicked ouer him, and let the aduersarie stand at his right hand.
Psalm 109:7	Whe he shalbe iudged, let him be condemned, and let his praier be turned into sinne.
Psalm 109:8	Let his daies be fewe, and let another take his charge.
Psalm 109:9	Let his children be fatherlesse, and his wife a widowe.
Psalm 109:10	Let his children be vagabonds and beg and seeke bread, comming out of their places destroyed.
Psalm 109:11	Let the extortioner catch al that he hath, and let the strangers spoile his labour.
Psalm 109:12	Let there be none to extend mercie vnto him: neither let there be any to shewe mercie vpon his fatherlesse children.
Psalm 109:13	Let his posteritie be destroied, and in the generation following let their name be put out.
Psalm 109:14	Let the iniquitie of his fathers bee had in remembrance with the Lord: and let not the sinne of his mother be done away.
Psalm 109:15	But let them alway be before the Lord, that he may cut off their memorial from ye earth.
Psalm 109:16	Because he remembred not to shew mercie, but persecuted the afflicted and poore man, and the sorowfull hearted to slay him.
Psalm 109:17	As he loued cursing, so shall it come vnto him, and as he loued not blessing, so shall it be farre from him.
Psalm 109:18	As he clothed himselfe with cursing like a rayment, so shall it come into his bowels like water, and like oyle into his bones.
Psalm 109:19	Let it be vnto him as a garment to couer him, and for a girdle, wherewith he shalbe alway girded.
Psalm 109:20	Let this be the rewarde of mine aduersarie from the Lord, and of them, that speake euill against my soule.
Psalm 109:21	But thou, O Lord my God, deale with me according vnto thy Name: deliuer me, (for thy mercie is good)
Psalm 109:22	Because I am poore and needie, and mine heart is wounded within me.
Psalm 109:23	I depart like the shadowe that declineth, and am shaken off as the grashopper.
Psalm 109:24	My knees are weake through fasting, and my flesh hath lost all fatnes.
Psalm 109:25	I became also a rebuke vnto them: they that looked vpon me, shaked their heads.
Psalm 109:26	Helpe me, O Lord my God: saue me according to thy mercie.
Psalm 109:27	And they shall know, that this is thine hand, and that thou, Lord, hast done it.
Psalm 109:28	Though they curse, yet thou wilt blesse: they shall arise and be confounded, but thy seruant shall reioyce.
Psalm 109:29	Let mine aduersaries be clothed with shame, and let them couer themselues with their confusion, as with a cloke.
Psalm 109:30	I will giue thankes vnto the Lord greatly with my mouth and praise him among ye multitude.
Psalm 109:31	For he will stand at the right hand of the poore, to saue him from them that woulde condemne his soule.
Psalm 110:1	A Psalme of David. The Lord said vnto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, vntill I make thine enemies thy footestoole.
Psalm 110:2	The Lord shall send the rod of thy power out of Zion: be thou ruler in the middes of thine enemies.
Psalm 110:3	Thy people shall come willingly at the time of assembling thine armie in holy beautie: the youth of thy wombe shalbe as the morning dewe.
Psalm 110:4	The Lord sware and wil not repent, Thou art a Priest for euer after ye order of Melchi-zedek.
Psalm 110:5	The Lord, that is at thy right hand, shall wound Kings in the day of his wrath.
Psalm 110:6	He shalbe iudge among the heathen: he shall fill all with dead bodies, and smite the head ouer great countreis.
Psalm 110:7	He shall drinke of the brooke in the way: therefore shall he lift vp his head.
Psalm 111:1	Praise ye the Lord. I will prayse the Lord with my whole heart in the assemblie and Congregation of the iust.
Psalm 111:2	The workes of the Lord are great, and ought to be sought out of al them that loue them.
Psalm 111:3	His worke is beautifull and glorious, and his righteousnesse endureth for euer.
Psalm 111:4	He hath made his wonderfull workes to be had in remembrance: the Lord is mercifull and full of compassion.
Psalm 111:5	He hath giuen a portion vnto them that feare him: he wil euer be mindfull of his couenant.
Psalm 111:6	He hath shewed to his people the power of his workes in giuing vnto them the heritage of the heathen.
Psalm 111:7	The workes of his handes are trueth and iudgement: all his statutes are true.
Psalm 111:8	They are stablished for euer and euer, and are done in trueth and equitie.
Psalm 111:9	He sent redemption vnto his people: he hath commanded his couenant for euer: holy and fearefull is his Name.
Psalm 111:10	The beginning of wisedome is the feare of the Lord: all they that obserue them, haue good vnderstanding: his praise endureth for euer.
Psalm 112:1	Praise ye the Lord. Blessed is the man, that feareth the Lord, and deliteth greatly in his commandements.
Psalm 112:2	His seede shall be mightie vpon earth: the generation of the righteous shall be blessed.
Psalm 112:3	Riches and treasures shalbe in his house, and his righteousnesse endureth for euer.
Psalm 112:4	Vnto the righteous ariseth light in darkenes: he is merciful and full of copassion and righteous.
Psalm 112:5	A good man is mercifull and lendeth, and will measure his affaires by iudgement.
Psalm 112:6	Surely he shall neuer be moued: but the righteous shalbe had in euerlasting remembrance.
Psalm 112:7	He will not be afraide of euill tidings: for his heart is fixed, and beleeueth in the Lord.
Psalm 112:8	His heart is stablished: therefore he will not feare, vntill he see his desire vpon his enemies.
Psalm 112:9	He hath distributed and giuen to ye poore: his righteousnesse remaineth for euer: his horne shalbe exalted with glory.
Psalm 112:10	The wicked shall see it and be angrie: he shall gnash with his teeth, and consume away: the desire of the wicked shall perish.
Psalm 113:1	Praise ye the Lord. Praise, O ye seruants of the Lord, prayse the Name of the Lord.
Psalm 113:2	Blessed be the Name of the Lord from hencefoorth and for euer.
Psalm 113:3	The Lordes Name is praysed from the rising of ye sunne, vnto ye going downe of the same.
Psalm 113:4	The Lord is high aboue all nations, and his glorie aboue the heauens.
Psalm 113:5	Who is like vnto the Lord our God, that hath his dwelling on high!
Psalm 113:6	Who abaseth himselfe to beholde things in the heauen and in the earth!
Psalm 113:7	He raiseth the needie out of the dust, and lifteth vp the poore out of the dung,
Psalm 113:8	That he may set him with the princes, euen with the princes of his people.
Psalm 113:9	He maketh the barren woman to dwell with a familie, and a ioyfull mother of children. Prayse ye the Lord.
Psalm 114:1	When Israel went out of Egypt, and the house of Iaakob from the barbarous people,
Psalm 114:2	Iudah was his sanctification, and Israel his dominion.
Psalm 114:3	The Sea sawe it and fled: Iorden was turned backe.
Psalm 114:4	The mountaines leaped like rams, and the hils as lambes.
Psalm 114:5	What ailed thee, O Sea, that thou fleddest? O Iorden, why wast thou turned backe?
Psalm 114:6	Ye mountaines, why leaped ye like rams, and ye hils as lambes?
Psalm 114:7	The earth trembled at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Iaakob,
Psalm 114:8	Which turneth the rocke into waterpooles, and the flint into a fountaine of water.
Psalm 115:1	Not vnto vs, O Lord, not vnto vs, but vnto thy Name giue the glorie, for thy louing mercie and for thy truethes sake.
Psalm 115:2	Wherefore shall the heathen say, Where is nowe their God?
Psalm 115:3	But our God is in heauen: he doeth what so euer he will.
Psalm 115:4	Their idoles are siluer and golde, euen the worke of mens hands.
Psalm 115:5	They haue a mouth and speake not: they haue eyes and see not.
Psalm 115:6	They haue eares and heare not: they haue noses and smelll not.
Psalm 115:7	They haue handes and touche not: they haue feete and walke not: neither make they a sound with their throte.
Psalm 115:8	They that make them are like vnto them: so are all that trust in them.
Psalm 115:9	O Israel, trust thou in the Lord: for he is their helpe and their shielde.
Psalm 115:10	O house of Aaron, trust ye in the Lord: for he is their helpe and their shielde.
Psalm 115:11	Ye that feare the Lord, trust in the Lord: for he is their helper and their shield.
Psalm 115:12	The Lord hath bene mindfull of vs: he will blesse, he will blesse the house of Israel, he will blesse the house of Aaron.
Psalm 115:13	He will blesse them that feare the Lord, both small and great.
Psalm 115:14	The Lord will increase his graces towarde you, euen toward you and toward your children.
Psalm 115:15	Ye are blessed of the Lord, which made the heauen and the earth.
Psalm 115:16	The heauens, euen the heauens are the Lordes: but he hath giuen the earth to the sonnes of men.
Psalm 115:17	The dead prayse not the Lord, neither any that goe downe into the place of silence.
Psalm 115:18	But we will prayse the Lord from henceforth and for euer. Prayse ye the Lord.
Psalm 116:1	I love the Lord, because he hath heard my voyce and my prayers.
Psalm 116:2	For he hath inclined his eare vnto me, whe I did call vpon him in my dayes.
Psalm 116:3	When the snares of death copassed me, and the griefes of the graue caught me: when I founde trouble and sorowe.
Psalm 116:4	Then I called vpon the Name of the Lord, saying, I beseech thee, O Lord, deliuer my soule.
Psalm 116:5	The Lord is mercifull and righteous, and our God is full of compassion.
Psalm 116:6	The Lord preserueth the simple: I was in miserie and he saued me.
Psalm 116:7	Returne vnto thy rest, O my soule: for the Lord hath bene beneficiall vnto thee,
Psalm 116:8	Because thou hast deliuered my soule from death, mine eyes from teares, and my feete from falling.
Psalm 116:9	I shall walke before the Lord in the lande of the liuing.
Psalm 116:10	I beleeued, therefore did I speake: for I was sore troubled.
Psalm 116:11	I said in my feare, All men are lyers.
Psalm 116:12	What shall I render vnto the Lord for all his benefites toward me?
Psalm 116:13	I will take the cup of saluation, and call vpon the Name of the Lord.
Psalm 116:14	I will pay my vowes vnto the Lord, euen nowe in the presence of all his people.
Psalm 116:15	Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his Saintes.
Psalm 116:16	Beholde, Lord: for I am thy seruant, I am thy seruant, and the sonne of thine handmaide: thou hast broken my bondes.
Psalm 116:17	I will offer to thee a sacrifice of prayse, and will call vpon the Name of the Lord.
Psalm 116:18	I will pay my vowes vnto the Lord, euen nowe in the presence of all his people,
Psalm 116:19	In the courtes of ye Lords house, euen in the middes of thee, O Ierusalem. Praise ye the Lord.
Psalm 117:1	All nations, praise ye the Lord: all ye people, praise him.
Psalm 117:2	For his louing kindnes is great toward vs, and the trueth of the Lord endureth for euer. Praise yee the Lord.
Psalm 118:1	Praise yee the Lord, because he is good: for his mercie endureth for euer.
Psalm 118:2	Let Israel now say, That his mercy endureth for euer.
Psalm 118:3	Let the house of Aaron nowe say, That his mercy endureth for euer.
Psalm 118:4	Let them, that feare the Lord, nowe say, That his mercie endureth for euer.
Psalm 118:5	I called vpon the Lord in trouble, and the Lord heard me, and set me at large.
Psalm 118:6	The Lord is with mee: therefore I will not feare what man can doe vnto me.
Psalm 118:7	The Lord is with mee among them that helpe me: therefore shall I see my desire vpon mine enemies.
Psalm 118:8	It is better to trust in the Lord, then to haue confidence in man.
Psalm 118:9	It is better to trust in the Lord, then to haue confidence in princes.
Psalm 118:10	All nations haue compassed me: but in the Name of the Lord shall I destroy them.
Psalm 118:11	They haue compassed mee, yea, they haue compassed mee: but in the Name of the Lord I shall destroy them.
Psalm 118:12	They came about mee like bees, but they were quenched as a fire of thornes: for in the Name of the Lord I shall destroy them.
Psalm 118:13	Thou hast thrust sore at me, that I might fall: but the Lord hath holpen me.
Psalm 118:14	The Lord is my strength and song: for he hath beene my deliuerance.
Psalm 118:15	The voice of ioy and deliuerance shall be in the tabernacles of the righteous, saying, The right hand of the Lord hath done valiantly.
Psalm 118:16	The right hand of the Lord is exalted: the right hand of the Lord hath done valiantly.
Psalm 118:17	I shall not die, but liue, and declare the woorkes of the Lord.
Psalm 118:18	The Lord hath chastened me sore, but he hath not deliuered me to death.
Psalm 118:19	Open ye vnto me the gates of righteousnes, that I may goe into them, and praise the Lord.
Psalm 118:20	This is the gate of the Lord: the righteous shall enter into it.
Psalm 118:21	I will praise thee: for thou hast heard mee, and hast beene my deliuerance.
Psalm 118:22	The stone, which the builders refused, is the head of the corner.
Psalm 118:23	This was the Lordes doing, and it is marueilous in our eyes.
Psalm 118:24	This is the day, which the Lord hath made: let vs reioyce and be glad in it.
Psalm 118:25	O Lord, I praie thee, saue now: O Lord, I praie thee nowe giue prosperitie.
Psalm 118:26	Blessed be he, that commeth in the Name of the Lord: wee haue blessed you out of the house of the Lord.
Psalm 118:27	The Lord is mightie, and hath giuen vs light: binde the sacrifice with cordes vnto the hornes of the altar.
Psalm 118:28	Thou art my God, and I will praise thee, euen my God: therefore I will exalt thee.
Psalm 118:29	Praise ye the Lord, because he is good: for his mercie endureth for euer.
Psalm 119:1	ALEPH. Blessed are those that are vpright in their way, and walke in the Lawe of the Lord.
Psalm 119:2	Blessed are they that keepe his testimonies, and seeke him with their whole heart.
Psalm 119:3	Surely they woorke none iniquitie, but walke in his waies.
Psalm 119:4	Thou hast commanded to keepe thy precepts diligently.
Psalm 119:5	Oh that my waies were directed to keepe thy statutes!
Psalm 119:6	Then should I not be confounded, when I haue respect vnto all thy commandements.
Psalm 119:7	I will praise thee with an vpright heart, when I shall learne the iudgements of thy righteousnesse.
Psalm 119:8	I will keepe thy statutes: forsake mee not ouerlong.
Psalm 119:9	BETH. Wherewith shall a yong man redresse his waie? in taking heede thereto according to thy woorde.
Psalm 119:10	With my whole heart haue I sought thee: let me not wander from thy commandements.
Psalm 119:11	I haue hid thy promise in mine heart, that I might not sinne against thee.
Psalm 119:12	Blessed art thou, O Lord: teache mee thy statutes.
Psalm 119:13	With my lippes haue I declared all the iudgements of thy mouth.
Psalm 119:14	I haue had as great delight in the way of thy testimonies, as in all riches.
Psalm 119:15	I will meditate in thy precepts, and consider thy waies.
Psalm 119:16	I will delite in thy statutes, and I will not forget thy worde.
Psalm 119:17	GIMEL. Be beneficiall vnto thy seruant, that I may liue and keepe thy woorde.
Psalm 119:18	Open mine eies, that I may see the wonders of thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:19	I am a stranger vpon earth: hide not thy commandements from me.
Psalm 119:20	Mine heart breaketh for the desire to thy iudgements alway.
Psalm 119:21	Thou hast destroied the proud: cursed are they that doe erre from thy commandements.
Psalm 119:22	Remoue from mee shame and contempt: for I haue kept thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:23	Princes also did sit, and speake against me: but thy seruant did meditate in thy statutes.
Psalm 119:24	Also thy testimonies are my delite, and my counsellers.
Psalm 119:25	DALETH. My soule cleaueth to the dust: quicken me according to thy worde.
Psalm 119:26	I haue declared my waies, and thou heardest me: teache me thy statutes.
Psalm 119:27	Make me to vnderstand ye way of thy precepts, and I will meditate in thy wondrous workes.
Psalm 119:28	My soule melteth for heauinesse: raise mee vp according vnto thy worde.
Psalm 119:29	Take from mee the way of lying, and graunt me graciously thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:30	I haue chosen the way of trueth, and thy iudgements haue I laied before me.
Psalm 119:31	I haue cleaued to thy testimonies, O Lord: confound me not.
Psalm 119:32	I will runne the way of thy commandements, when thou shalt enlarge mine heart.
Psalm 119:33	HE. Teach mee, O Lord, the way of thy statutes, and I will keepe it vnto the ende.
Psalm 119:34	Giue mee vnderstanding, and I will keepe thy Law: yea, I wil keepe it with my whole heart.
Psalm 119:35	Direct mee in the path of thy commandements: for therein is my delite.
Psalm 119:36	Incline mine heart vnto thy testimonies, and not to couetousnesse.
Psalm 119:37	Turne away mine eies from regarding vanitie, and quicken me in thy way.
Psalm 119:38	Stablish thy promise to thy seruaunt, because he feareth thee.
Psalm 119:39	Take away my rebuke that I feare: for thy iudgements are good.
Psalm 119:40	Beholde, I desire thy commandements: quicken me in thy righteousnesse,
Psalm 119:41	VAV. And let thy louing kindnesse come vnto me, O Lord, and thy saluation according to thy promise.
Psalm 119:42	So shall I make answere vnto my blasphemers: for I trust in thy woorde.
Psalm 119:43	And take not the woorde of trueth vtterly out of my mouth: for I waite for thy iudgements.
Psalm 119:44	So shall I alway keepe thy Lawe for euer and euer.
Psalm 119:45	And I will walke at libertie: for I seeke thy precepts.
Psalm 119:46	I will speake also of thy testimonies before Kings, and will not be ashamed.
Psalm 119:47	And my delite shalbe in thy commandements, which I haue loued.
Psalm 119:48	Mine handes also will I lift vp vnto thy commandements, which I haue loued, and I will meditate in thy statutes.
Psalm 119:49	ZAIN. Remember the promise made to thy seruant, wherein thou hast caused me to trust.
Psalm 119:50	It is my comfort in my trouble: for thy promise hath quickened me.
Psalm 119:51	The proude haue had me exceedingly in derision: yet haue I not declined from thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:52	I remembred thy iudgements of olde, O Lord, and haue bene comforted.
Psalm 119:53	Feare is come vpon mee for the wicked, that forsake thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:54	Thy statutes haue beene my songes in the house of my pilgrimage.
Psalm 119:55	I haue remembred thy Name, O Lord, in the night, and haue kept thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:56	This I had because I kept thy precepts.
Psalm 119:57	CHETH. O Lord, that art my portion, I haue determined to keepe thy wordes.
Psalm 119:58	I made my supplication in thy presence with my whole heart: be mercifull vnto me according to thy promise.
Psalm 119:59	I haue considered my waies, and turned my feete into thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:60	I made haste and delaied not to keepe thy commandements.
Psalm 119:61	The bandes of the wicked haue robbed me: but I haue not forgotten thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:62	At midnight will I rise to giue thanks vnto thee, because of thy righteous iudgements.
Psalm 119:63	I am companion of all them that feare thee, and keepe thy precepts.
Psalm 119:64	The earth, O Lord, is full of thy mercie: teache me thy statutes.
Psalm 119:65	TETH. O Lord, thou hast delt graciously with thy seruant according vnto thy woorde.
Psalm 119:66	Teach me good iudgement and knowledge: for I haue beleeued thy commandements.
Psalm 119:67	Before I was afflicted, I went astray: but nowe I keepe thy woorde.
Psalm 119:68	Thou art good and gracious: teach me thy statutes.
Psalm 119:69	The proud haue imagined a lie against me: but I wil keepe thy precepts with my whole heart.
Psalm 119:70	Their heart is fatte as grease: but my delite is in thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:71	It is good for me that I haue beene afflicted, that I may learne thy statutes.
Psalm 119:72	The Lawe of thy mouth is better vnto me, then thousands of golde and siluer.
Psalm 119:73	IOD. Thine hands haue made me and fashioned me: giue mee vnderstanding therefore, that I may learne thy commandements.
Psalm 119:74	So they that feare thee, seeing mee shall reioyce, because I haue trusted in thy worde.
Psalm 119:75	I knowe, O Lord, that thy iudgements are right, and that thou hast afflicted me iustly.
Psalm 119:76	I pray thee that thy mercie may comfort me according to thy promise vnto thy seruant.
Psalm 119:77	Let thy tender mercies come vnto me, that I may liue: for thy Lawe is my delite.
Psalm 119:78	Let the proude be ashamed: for they haue dealt wickedly and falsely with me: but I meditate in thy precepts.
Psalm 119:79	Let such as feare thee turne vnto me, and they that knowe thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:80	Let mine heart bee vpright in thy statutes, that I be not ashamed.
Psalm 119:81	CAPH. My soule fainteth for thy saluation: yet I waite for thy worde.
Psalm 119:82	Mine eyes faile for thy promise, saying, when wilt thou comfort me?
Psalm 119:83	For I am like a bottell in the smoke: yet doe I not forget thy statutes.
Psalm 119:84	Howe many are the dayes of thy seruant? When wilt thou execute iudgement on them that persecute me?
Psalm 119:85	The proude haue digged pittes for mee, which is not after thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:86	All thy commandements are true: they persecute me falsely: helpe me.
Psalm 119:87	They had almost consumed me vpon the earth: but I forsooke not thy precepts.
Psalm 119:88	Quicken me according to thy louing kindnes: so shall I keepe the testimony of thy mouth.
Psalm 119:89	LAMED. O Lord, thy worde endureth for euer in heauen.
Psalm 119:90	Thy trueth is from generation to generation: thou hast layed the foundation of the earth, and it abideth.
Psalm 119:91	They continue euen to this day by thine ordinances: for all are thy seruants.
Psalm 119:92	Except thy Lawe had bene my delite, I should now haue perished in mine affliction.
Psalm 119:93	I wil neuer forget thy precepts: for by them thou hast quickened me.
Psalm 119:94	I am thine, saue me: for I haue sought thy precepts.
Psalm 119:95	The wicked haue waited for me to destroy me: but I will consider thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:96	I haue seene an ende of all perfection: but thy commandement is exceeding large.
Psalm 119:97	MEM. Oh howe loue I thy Lawe! it is my meditation continually.
Psalm 119:98	By thy commandements thou hast made mee wiser then mine enemies: for they are euer with mee.
Psalm 119:99	I haue had more vnderstading then all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation.
Psalm 119:100	I vnderstoode more then the ancient, because I kept thy precepts.
Psalm 119:101	I haue refrained my feete from euery euil way, that I might keepe thy word.
Psalm 119:102	I haue not declined from thy iudgements: for thou didest teach me.
Psalm 119:103	Howe sweete are thy promises vnto my mouth! yea, more then hony vnto my mouth.
Psalm 119:104	By thy precepts I haue gotten vnderstanding: therefore I hate all the wayes of falshoode.
Psalm 119:105	NUN. Thy worde is a lanterne vnto my feete, and a light vnto my path.
Psalm 119:106	I haue sworne and will performe it, that I will keepe thy righteous iudgements.
Psalm 119:107	I am very sore afflicted: O Lord, quicken me according to thy word.
Psalm 119:108	O Lord, I beseeche thee accept the free offerings of my mouth, and teach mee thy iudgements.
Psalm 119:109	My soule is continually in mine hande: yet doe I not forget thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:110	The wicked haue layed a snare for mee: but I swarued not from thy precepts.
Psalm 119:111	Thy testimonies haue I taken as an heritage for euer: for they are the ioy of mine heart.
Psalm 119:112	I haue applied mine heart to fulfill thy statutes alway, euen vnto the ende.
Psalm 119:113	SAMECH. I hate vaine inuentions: but thy Lawe doe I loue.
Psalm 119:114	Thou art my refuge and shield, and I trust in thy worde.
Psalm 119:115	Away from mee, yee wicked: for I will keepe the commandements of my God.
Psalm 119:116	Stablish me according to thy promise, that I may liue, and disappoint me not of mine hope.
Psalm 119:117	Stay thou mee, and I shall be safe, and I will delite continually in thy statutes.
Psalm 119:118	Thou hast troden downe all them that depart from thy statutes: for their deceit is vaine.
Psalm 119:119	Thou hast taken away all ye wicked of the earth like drosse: therefore I loue thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:120	My flesh trembleth for feare of thee, and I am afraide of thy iudgements.
Psalm 119:121	AIN. I haue executed iudgement and iustice: leaue me not to mine oppressours.
Psalm 119:122	Answere for thy seruant in that, which is good, and let not the proude oppresse me.
Psalm 119:123	Mine eyes haue failed in waiting for thy saluation, and for thy iust promise.
Psalm 119:124	Deale with thy seruant according to thy mercie, and teache me thy statutes.
Psalm 119:125	I am thy seruant: graunt mee therefore vnderstanding, that I may knowe thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:126	It is time for thee Lord to worke: for they haue destroyed thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:127	Therefore loue I thy commandements aboue golde, yea, aboue most fine golde.
Psalm 119:128	Therefore I esteeme all thy precepts most iust, and hate all false wayes.
Psalm 119:129	PE. Thy testimonies are wonderfull: therefore doeth my soule keepe them.
Psalm 119:130	The entrance into thy wordes sheweth light, and giueth vnderstanding to the simple.
Psalm 119:131	I opened my mouth and panted, because I loued thy commandements.
Psalm 119:132	Looke vpon mee and bee mercifull vnto me, as thou vsest to doe vnto those that loue thy Name.
Psalm 119:133	Direct my steppes in thy worde, and let none iniquitie haue dominion ouer me.
Psalm 119:134	Deliuer mee from the oppression of men, and I will keepe thy precepts.
Psalm 119:135	Shew the light of thy countenance vpon thy seruant, and teache me thy statutes.
Psalm 119:136	Mine eyes gush out with riuers of water, because they keepe not thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:137	TSADDI. Righteous art thou, O Lord, and iust are thy iudgements.
Psalm 119:138	Thou hast commanded iustice by thy testimonies and trueth especially.
Psalm 119:139	My zeale hath euen consumed mee, because mine enemies haue forgotten thy wordes.
Psalm 119:140	Thy word is prooued most pure, and thy seruant loueth it.
Psalm 119:141	I am small and despised: yet do I not forget thy precepts.
Psalm 119:142	Thy righteousnesse is an euerlasting righteousnes, and thy Lawe is trueth.
Psalm 119:143	Trouble and anguish are come vpon me: yet are thy commandements my delite.
Psalm 119:144	The righteousnes of thy testimonies is euerlasting: graunt me vnderstanding, and I shall liue.
Psalm 119:145	KOPH. I haue cried with my whole heart: heare me, O Lord, and I will keepe thy statutes.
Psalm 119:146	I called vpon thee: saue mee, and I will keepe thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:147	I preuented the morning light, and cried: for I waited on thy word.
Psalm 119:148	Mine eyes preuent the night watches to meditate in thy word.
Psalm 119:149	Heare my voyce according to thy louing kindenesse: O Lord, quicken me according to thy iudgement.
Psalm 119:150	They drawe neere, that follow after malice, and are farre from thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:151	Thou art neere, O Lord: for all thy commandements are true.
Psalm 119:152	I haue knowen long since by thy testimonies, that thou hast established them for euer.
Psalm 119:153	RESH. Beholde mine affliction, and deliuer mee: for I haue not forgotten thy Lawe.
Psalm 119:154	Pleade my cause, and deliuer me: quicken me according vnto thy word.
Psalm 119:155	Saluation is farre from the wicked, because they seeke not thy statutes.
Psalm 119:156	Great are thy tender mercies, O Lord: quicken me according to thy iudgements.
Psalm 119:157	My persecutours and mine oppressours are many: yet doe I not swarue from thy testimonies.
Psalm 119:158	I saw the transgressours and was grieued, because they kept not thy worde.
Psalm 119:159	Consider, O Lord, how I loue thy preceptes: quicken mee according to thy louing kindenesse.
Psalm 119:160	The beginning of thy worde is trueth, and all the iudgements of thy righteousnesse endure for euer.
Psalm 119:161	SCHIN. Princes haue persecuted mee without cause, but mine heart stood in awe of thy wordes.
Psalm 119:162	I reioyce at thy worde, as one that findeth a great spoyle.
Psalm 119:163	I hate falshoode and abhorre it, but thy Lawe doe I loue.
Psalm 119:164	Seuen times a day doe I praise thee, because of thy righteous iudgements.
Psalm 119:165	They that loue thy Law, shall haue great prosperitie, and they shall haue none hurt.
Psalm 119:166	Lord, I haue trusted in thy saluation, and haue done thy commandements.
Psalm 119:167	My soule hath kept thy testimonies: for I loue them exceedingly.
Psalm 119:168	I haue kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my wayes are before thee.
Psalm 119:169	TAV. Let my complaint come before thee, O Lord, and giue me vnderstanding, according vnto thy worde.
Psalm 119:170	Let my supplication come before thee, and deliuer me according to thy promise.
Psalm 119:171	My lippes shall speake praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes.
Psalm 119:172	My tongue shall intreate of thy word: for all thy commandements are righteous.
Psalm 119:173	Let thine hand helpe me: for I haue chosen thy precepts.
Psalm 119:174	I haue longed for thy saluation, O Lord, and thy Lawe is my delite.
Psalm 119:175	Let my soule liue, and it shall praise thee, and thy iudgements shall helpe me.
Psalm 119:176	I haue gone astraye like a lost sheepe: seeke thy seruant, for I doe not forget thy commandements.
Psalm 120:1	A song of degrees. I called vnto the Lord in my trouble, and hee heard me.
Psalm 120:2	Deliuer my soule, O Lord, from lying lippes, and from a deceitfull tongue.
Psalm 120:3	What doeth thy deceitfull tongue bring vnto thee? or what doeth it auaile thee?
Psalm 120:4	It is as the sharpe arrowes of a mightie man, and as the coales of iuniper.
Psalm 120:5	Woe is to me that I remaine in Meschech, and dwell in the tentes of Kedar.
Psalm 120:6	My soule hath too long dwelt with him that hateth peace.
Psalm 120:7	I seeke peace, and when I speake thereof, they are bent to warre.
Psalm 121:1	A song of degrees. I will lift mine eyes vnto the mountaines, from whence mine helpe shall come.
Psalm 121:2	Mine helpe commeth from the Lord, which hath made the heauen and the earth.
Psalm 121:3	He wil not suffer thy foote to slippe: for he that keepeth thee, will not slumber.
Psalm 121:4	Beholde, he that keepeth Israel, wil neither slumber nor sleepe.
Psalm 121:5	The Lord is thy keeper: the Lord is thy shadow at thy right hand.
Psalm 121:6	The sunne shall not smite thee by day, nor the moone by night.
Psalm 121:7	The Lord shall preserue thee from all euil: he shall keepe thy soule.
Psalm 121:8	The Lord shall preserue thy going out, and thy comming in from henceforth and for euer.
Psalm 122:1	A song of degrees, or Psalme of David. I rejoiced, when they sayd to me, We wil go into the house of the Lord.
Psalm 122:2	Our feete shall stand in thy gates, O Ierusalem.
Psalm 122:3	Ierusalem is builded as a citie, that is compact together in it selfe:
Psalm 122:4	Whereunto the Tribes, euen the Tribes of the Lord go vp according to the testimonie to Israel, to prayse the Name of the Lord.
Psalm 122:5	For there are thrones set for iudgement, euen the thrones of the house of Dauid.
Psalm 122:6	Pray for the peace of Ierusalem: let them prosper that loue thee.
Psalm 122:7	Peace be within thy walles, and prosperitie within thy palaces.
Psalm 122:8	For my brethren and neighbours sakes I will wish thee now prosperitie.
Psalm 122:9	Because of the House of the Lord our God, I will procure thy wealth.
Psalm 123:1	A song of degrees. I lift vp mine eyes to thee, that dwellest in the heauens.
Psalm 123:2	Behold, as the eyes of seruants looke vnto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a mayden vnto the hand of her mistres: so our eyes waite vpon the Lord our God vntil he haue mercie vpon vs.
Psalm 123:3	Haue mercie vpon vs, O Lord, haue mercie vpon vs: for we haue suffered too much contempt.
Psalm 123:4	Our soule is filled too full of ye mocking of the wealthy, and of the despitefulnes of the proude.
Psalm 124:1	A song of degrees, or Psalme of David. If the Lord had not bene on our side, (may Israel now say)
Psalm 124:2	If the Lord had not bene on our side, when men rose vp against vs,
Psalm 124:3	They had then swallowed vs vp quicke, when their wrath was kindled against vs.
Psalm 124:4	Then the waters had drowned vs, and the streame had gone ouer our soule:
Psalm 124:5	Then had the swelling waters gone ouer our soule.
Psalm 124:6	Praysed be the Lord, which hath not giuen vs as a praye vnto their teeth.
Psalm 124:7	Our soule is escaped, euen as a bird out of the snare of the foulers: the snare is broken, and we are deliuered.
Psalm 124:8	Our helpe is in the Name of the Lord, which hath made heauen and earth.
Psalm 125:1	A song of degrees. They that trust in the Lord, shalbe as mount Zion, which can not be remooued, but remaineth for euer.
Psalm 125:2	As the mountaines are about Ierusalem: so is the Lord about his people from henceforth and for euer.
Psalm 125:3	For the rod of the wicked shall not rest on the lot of the righteous, least the righteous put forth their hand vnto wickednes.
Psalm 125:4	Doe well, O Lord, vnto those that be good and true in their hearts.
Psalm 125:5	But these that turne aside by their crooked wayes, them shall the Lord leade with the workers of iniquitie: but peace shalbe vpon Israel.
Psalm 126:1	A song of degrees, or Psalme of David. When ye Lord brought againe the captiuitie of Zion, we were like them that dreame.
Psalm 126:2	Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with ioye: then sayd they among the heathen, The Lord hath done great things for them.
Psalm 126:3	The Lord hath done great things for vs, whereof we reioyce.
Psalm 126:4	O Lord, bring againe our captiuitie, as the riuers in the South.
Psalm 126:5	They that sowe in teares, shall reape in ioy.
Psalm 126:6	They went weeping and caried precious seede: but they shall returne with ioye and bring their sheaues.
Psalm 127:1	A song of degrees, or Psalme of Salomon. Except the Lord build the house, they labour in vaine that build it: except the Lord keepe the citie, the keeper watcheth in vaine.
Psalm 127:2	It is in vaine for you to rise earely, and to lie downe late, and eate the bread of sorow: but he wil surely giue rest to his beloued.
Psalm 127:3	Beholde, children are the inheritance of the Lord, and the fruite of the wombe his rewarde.
Psalm 127:4	As are the arrowes in the hand of ye strong man: so are the children of youth.
Psalm 127:5	Blessed is the man, that hath his quiuer full of them: for they shall not be ashamed, when they speake with their enemies in the gate.
Psalm 128:1	A song of degrees. Blessed is euery one that feareth the Lord and walketh in his wayes.
Psalm 128:2	When thou eatest the labours of thine hands, thou shalt be blessed, and it shall be well with thee.
Psalm 128:3	Thy wife shalbe as the fruitfull vine on the sides of thine house, and thy children like the oliue plantes round about thy table.
Psalm 128:4	Lo, surely thus shall the man be blessed, that feareth the Lord.
Psalm 128:5	The Lord out of Zion shall blesse thee, and thou shalt see the wealth of Ierusalem all the dayes of thy life.
Psalm 128:6	Yea, thou shalt see thy childrens children, and peace vpon Israel.
Psalm 129:1	A song of degrees. They haue often times afflicted me from my youth (may Israel nowe say)
Psalm 129:2	They haue often times afflicted me from my youth: but they could not preuaile against me.
Psalm 129:3	The plowers plowed vpon my backe, and made long furrowes.
Psalm 129:4	But the righteous Lord hath cut the cordes of the wicked.
Psalm 129:5	They that hate Zion, shalbe all ashamed and turned backward.
Psalm 129:6	They shalbe as the grasse on the house tops, which withereth afore it commeth forth.
Psalm 129:7	Whereof the mower filleth not his hand, neither the glainer his lap:
Psalm 129:8	Neither they, which go by, say, The blessing of the Lord be vpon you, or, We blesse you in the Name of the Lord.
Psalm 130:1	A song of degrees. Out of the deepe places haue I called vnto thee, O Lord.
Psalm 130:2	Lord, heare my voyce: let thine eares attend to the voyce of my prayers.
Psalm 130:3	If thou, O Lord, straightly markest iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?
Psalm 130:4	But mercie is with thee, that thou mayest be feared.
Psalm 130:5	I haue waited on the Lord: my soule hath waited, and I haue trusted in his worde.
Psalm 130:6	My soule waiteth on the Lord more then the morning watch watcheth for the morning.
Psalm 130:7	Let Israel waite on the Lord: for with the Lord is mercie, and with him is great redemption.
Psalm 130:8	And he shall redeeme Israel from all his iniquities.
Psalm 131:1	A song of degrees or Psalme of David. Lord, mine heart is not hautie, neither are mine eyes loftie, neither haue I walked in great matters and hid from me.
Psalm 131:2	Surely I haue behaued my selfe, like one wained from his mother, and kept silence: I am in my selfe as one that is wained.
Psalm 131:3	Let Israel waite on the Lord from hencefoorth and for euer.
Psalm 132:1	A song of degrees. Lord, remember Dauid with all his affliction.
Psalm 132:2	Who sware vnto the Lord, and vowed vnto the mightie God of Iaakob, saying,
Psalm 132:3	I will not enter into the tabernacle of mine house, nor come vpon my pallet or bed,
Psalm 132:4	Nor suffer mine eyes to sleepe, nor mine eye lids to slumber,
Psalm 132:5	Vntill I finde out a place for the Lord, an habitation for the mightie God of Iaakob.
Psalm 132:6	Lo, we heard of it in Ephrathah, and found it in the fieldes of the forest.
Psalm 132:7	We will enter into his Tabernacles, and worship before his footestoole.
Psalm 132:8	Arise, O Lord, to come into thy rest, thou, and the Arke of thy strength.
Psalm 132:9	Let thy Priests be clothed with righteousnesse, and let thy Saints reioyce.
Psalm 132:10	For thy seruant Dauids sake refuse not the face of thine Anointed.
Psalm 132:11	The Lord hath sworne in trueth vnto Dauid, and he wil not shrinke from it, saying, Of the fruite of thy body will I set vpon thy throne.
Psalm 132:12	If thy sonnes keepe my couenant, and my testimonies, that I shall teach them, their sonnes also shall sit vpon thy throne for euer.
Psalm 132:13	For the Lord hath chosen Zion, and loued to dwell in it, saying,
Psalm 132:14	This is my rest for euer: here will I dwell, for I haue a delite therein.
Psalm 132:15	I will surely blesse her vitailes, and will satisfie her poore with bread,
Psalm 132:16	And will clothe her Priests with saluation, and her Saints shall shoute for ioye.
Psalm 132:17	There will I make the horne of Dauid to bud: for I haue ordeined a light for mine Anoynted.
Psalm 132:18	His enemies will I clothe with shame, but on him his crowne shall florish.
Psalm 133:1	A song of degrees or Psalme of David. Behold, howe good and howe comely a thing it is, brethren to dwell euen together.
Psalm 133:2	It is like to the precious oyntment vpon the head, that runneth downe vpon the beard, euen vnto Aarons beard, which went downe on the border of his garments:
Psalm 133:3	And as the dew of Hermon, which falleth vpon the mountaines of Zion: for there the Lord appointed the blessing and life for euer.
Psalm 134:1	A song of degrees. Behold, praise ye the Lord, all ye seruants of the Lord, ye that by night stande in the house of the Lord.
Psalm 134:2	Lift vp your hands to the Sanctuarie, and praise the Lord.
Psalm 134:3	The Lord, that hath made heauen and earth, blesse thee out of Zion.
Psalm 135:1	Praise ye the Lord. Praise the Name of the Lord: ye seruants of the Lord, praise him.
Psalm 135:2	Ye that stande in the House of the Lord, and in the courtes of the House of our God,
Psalm 135:3	Praise ye the Lord: for the Lord is good: sing praises vnto his Name: for it is a comely thing.
Psalm 135:4	For the Lord hath chosen Iaakob to himselfe, and Israel for his chiefe treasure.
Psalm 135:5	For I know that the Lord is great, and that our Lord is aboue all gods.
Psalm 135:6	Whatsoeuer pleased the Lord, that did hee in heauen and in earth, in the sea, and in all the depths.
Psalm 135:7	He bringeth vp the cloudes from the ends of the earth, and maketh the lightnings with ye raine: he draweth foorth the winde out of his treasures.
Psalm 135:8	He smote the first borne of Egypt both of man and beast.
Psalm 135:9	He hath sent tokens and wonders into the middes of thee, O Egypt, vpon Pharaoh, and vpon all his seruants.
Psalm 135:10	He smote many nations, and slew mightie Kings:
Psalm 135:11	As Sihon King of the Amorites, and Og King of Bashan, and all the kingdomes of Canaan:
Psalm 135:12	And gaue their lande for an inheritance, euen an inheritance vnto Israel his people.
Psalm 135:13	Thy Name, O Lord, endureth for euer: O Lord, thy remembrance is from generation to generation.
Psalm 135:14	For the Lord will iudge his people, and be pacified towardes his seruants.
Psalm 135:15	The idoles of the heathen are siluer and golde, euen the worke of mens handes.
Psalm 135:16	They haue a mouth, and speake not: they haue eyes and see not.
Psalm 135:17	They haue eares and heare not, neither is there any breath in their mouth.
Psalm 135:18	They that make them, are like vnto them: so are all that trust in them.
Psalm 135:19	Praise the Lord, ye house of Israel: praise the Lord, ye house of Aaron.
Psalm 135:20	Praise the Lord, ye house of Leui: ye that feare the Lord, praise the Lord.
Psalm 135:21	Praised bee the Lord out of Zion, which dwelleth in Ierusalem. Praise ye the Lord.
Psalm 136:1	Praise ye the Lord, because he is good: for his mercie endureth for euer.
Psalm 136:2	Praise ye the God of gods: for his mercie endureth for euer.
Psalm 136:3	Praise ye the Lord of lordes: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:4	Which onely doeth great wonders: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:5	Which by his wisedome made the heauens: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:6	Which hath stretched out the earth vpon the waters: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:7	Which made great lightes: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:8	As the sunne to rule the day: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:9	The moone and the starres to gouerne the night: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:10	Which smote Egypt with their first borne, (for his mercie endureth for euer)
Psalm 136:11	And brought out Israel from among them (for his mercie endureth for euer)
Psalm 136:12	With a mightie hande and stretched out arme: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:13	Which deuided the red Sea in two partes: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:14	And made Israel to passe through the mids of it: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:15	And ouerthrewe Pharaoh and his hoste in the red Sea: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:16	Which led his people through the wildernes: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:17	Which smote great Kings: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:18	And slewe mightie Kings: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:19	As Sihon King of the Amorites: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:20	And Og the King of Bashan: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:21	And gaue their land for an heritage: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:22	Euen an heritage vnto Israel his seruant: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:23	Which remembred vs in our base estate: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:24	And hath rescued vs from our oppressours: for his mercie endureth for euer:
Psalm 136:25	Which giueth foode to all flesh: for his mercie endureth for euer.
Psalm 136:26	Praise ye the God of heauen: for his mercie endureth for euer.
Psalm 137:1	By the riuers of Babel we sate, and there wee wept, when we remembred Zion.
Psalm 137:2	Wee hanged our harpes vpon the willowes in the middes thereof.
Psalm 137:3	Then they that ledde vs captiues, required of vs songs and mirth, when wee had hanged vp our harpes, saying, Sing vs one of the songs of Zion.
Psalm 137:4	Howe shall we sing, said we, a song of the Lord in a strange land?
Psalm 137:5	If I forget thee, O Ierusalem, let my right hand forget to play.
Psalm 137:6	If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleaue to the roofe of my mouth: yea, if I preferre not Ierusalem to my chiefe ioy.
Psalm 137:7	Remember the children of Edom, O Lord, in the day of Ierusalem, which saide, Rase it, rase it to the foundation thereof.
Psalm 137:8	O daughter of Babel, worthy to be destroyed, blessed shall he be that rewardeth thee, as thou hast serued vs.
Psalm 137:9	Blessed shall he be that taketh and dasheth thy children against the stones.
Psalm 138:1	A Psalme of David. I will praise thee with my whole heart: euen before the gods will I praise thee.
Psalm 138:2	I will worship toward thine holy Temple and praise thy Name, because of thy louing kindenesse and for thy trueth: for thou hast magnified thy Name aboue all things by thy word.
Psalm 138:3	When I called, then thou heardest me, and hast encreased strength in my soule.
Psalm 138:4	All the Kings of the earth shall praise thee, O Lord: for they haue heard the wordes of thy mouth.
Psalm 138:5	And they shall sing of the wayes of the Lord, because the glory of the Lord is great.
Psalm 138:6	For the Lord is high: yet he beholdeth the lowly, but the proude he knoweth afarre off.
Psalm 138:7	Though I walke in the middes of trouble, yet wilt thou reuiue me: thou wilt stretch foorth thine hand vpon the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall saue me.
Psalm 138:8	The Lord will performe his worke toward me: O Lord, thy mercie endureth for euer: forsake not the workes of thine handes.
Psalm 139:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of David. O Lord, thou hast tried me and knowen me.
Psalm 139:2	Thou knowest my sitting and my rising: thou vnderstandest my thought afarre off.
Psalm 139:3	Thou compassest my pathes, and my lying downe, and art accustomed to all my wayes.
Psalm 139:4	For there is not a word in my tongue, but loe, thou knowest it wholy, O Lord.
Psalm 139:5	Thou holdest mee straite behinde and before, and layest thine hand vpon me.
Psalm 139:6	Thy knowledge is too wonderfull for mee: it is so high that I cannot attaine vnto it.
Psalm 139:7	Whither shall I goe from thy Spirite? or whither shall I flee from thy presence?
Psalm 139:8	If I ascende into heauen, thou art there: if I lye downe in hell, thou art there.
Psalm 139:9	Let mee take the winges of the morning, and dwell in the vttermost parts of the sea:
Psalm 139:10	Yet thither shall thine hand leade me, and thy right hand holde me.
Psalm 139:11	If I say, Yet the darkenes shall hide me, euen the night shalbe light about me.
Psalm 139:12	Yea, the darkenes hideth not from thee: but the night shineth as the day: the darkenes and light are both alike.
Psalm 139:13	For thou hast possessed my reines: thou hast couered me in my mothers wombe.
Psalm 139:14	I will praise thee, for I am fearefully and wonderously made: marueilous are thy workes, and my soule knoweth it well.
Psalm 139:15	My bones are not hid from thee, though I was made in a secret place, and facioned beneath in the earth.
Psalm 139:16	Thine eyes did see me, when I was without forme: for in thy booke were all things written, which in continuance were facioned, when there was none of them before.
Psalm 139:17	Howe deare therefore are thy thoughtes vnto me, O God! how great is ye summe of them!
Psalm 139:18	If I should count them, they are moe then the sand: when I wake, I am still with thee.
Psalm 139:19	Oh that thou wouldest slay, O God, the wicked and bloody men, to whom I say, Depart ye from mee:
Psalm 139:20	Which speake wickedly of thee, and being thine enemies are lifted vp in vaine.
Psalm 139:21	Doe not I hate them, O Lord, that hate thee? and doe not I earnestly contend with those that rise vp against thee?
Psalm 139:22	I hate them with an vnfained hatred, as they were mine vtter enemies.
Psalm 139:23	Try mee, O God, and knowe mine heart: prooue me and know my thoughtes,
Psalm 139:24	And consider if there be any way of wickednes in me, and leade me in the way for euer.
Psalm 140:1	To him that excelleth. A Psalme of David. Deliuer me, O Lord, from the euill man: preserue me from the cruel man:
Psalm 140:2	Which imagine euill things in their heart, and make warre continually.
Psalm 140:3	They haue sharpened their tongues like a serpent: adders poyson is vnder their lips. Selah.
Psalm 140:4	Keepe mee, O Lord, from the handes of the wicked: preserue mee from the cruell man, which purposeth to cause my steppes to slide.
Psalm 140:5	The proude haue layde a snare for me, and spred a nette with cordes in my pathway, and set grennes for me. Selah.
Psalm 140:6	Therefore I saide vnto the Lord, Thou art my God: heare, O Lord, the voyce of my prayers.
Psalm 140:7	O Lord God the strength of my saluation, thou hast couered mine head in the day of battel.
Psalm 140:8	Let not the wicked haue his desire, O Lord: performe not his wicked thought, least they be proude. Selah.
Psalm 140:9	As for the chiefe of them, that compasse me about, let the mischiefe of their owne lippes come vpon them.
Psalm 140:10	Let coles fal vpon them: let him cast them into the fire, and into the deepe pits, that they rise not.
Psalm 140:11	For the backbiter shall not be established vpon the earth: euill shall hunt the cruell man to destruction.
Psalm 140:12	I know that the Lord will auenge the afflicted, and iudge the poore.
Psalm 140:13	Surely the righteous shall prayse thy Name, and the iust shall dwell in thy presence.
Psalm 141:1	A Psalme of David. O Lord, I call vpon thee: haste thee vnto me: heare my voyce, when I cry vnto thee.
Psalm 141:2	Let my prayer be directed in thy sight as incense, and the lifting vp of mine hands as an euening sacrifice.
Psalm 141:3	Set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth, and keepe the doore of my lips.
Psalm 141:4	Incline not mine heart to euill, that I should commit wicked workes with men that worke iniquitie: and let me not eate of their delicates.
Psalm 141:5	Let the righteous smite me: for that is a benefite: and let him reprooue me, and it shalbe a precious oyle, that shall not breake mine head: for within a while I shall euen pray in their miseries.
Psalm 141:6	When their iudges shall be cast downe in stonie places, they shall heare my wordes, for they are sweete.
Psalm 141:7	Our bones lye scattered at the graues mouth, as he that heweth wood or diggeth in the earth.
Psalm 141:8	But mine eyes looke vnto thee, O Lord God: in thee is my trust: leaue not my soule destitute.
Psalm 141:9	Keepe me from the snare, which they haue layde for me, and from the grennes of the workers of iniquitie.
Psalm 141:10	Let the wicked fall into his nettes together, whiles I escape.
Psalm 142:1	A Psalme of David, to give instruction, and a prayer, when he was in the cave. I cryed vnto the Lord with my voyce: with my voyce I prayed vnto the Lord.
Psalm 142:2	I powred out my meditation before him, and declared mine affliction in his presence.
Psalm 142:3	Though my spirit was in perplexitie in me, yet thou knewest my path: in the way wherein I walked, haue they priuily layde a snare for me.
Psalm 142:4	I looked vpon my right hand, and beheld, but there was none that would knowe me: all refuge failed me, and none cared for my soule.
Psalm 142:5	Then cryed I vnto thee, O Lord, and sayde, thou art mine hope, and my portion in the land of the liuing.
Psalm 142:6	Hearken vnto my crye, for I am brought very lowe: deliuer me from my persecuters, for they are too strong for me.
Psalm 142:7	Bring my soule out of prison, that I may prayse thy Name: then shall the righteous come about me, when thou art beneficiall vnto me.
Psalm 143:1	A Psalme of David. Heare my prayer, O Lord, and hearken vnto my supplication: answer me in thy trueth and in thy righteousnes.
Psalm 143:2	(And enter not into iudgement with thy seruant: for in thy sight shall none that liueth, be iustified)
Psalm 143:3	For the enemie hath persecuted my soule: he hath smitten my life downe to the earth: he hath layde me in the darkenes, as they that haue bene dead long agoe:
Psalm 143:4	And my spirit was in perplexitie in me, and mine heart within me was amased.
Psalm 143:5	Yet do I remember the time past: I meditate in all thy workes, yea, I doe meditate in the workes of thine hands.
Psalm 143:6	I stretche forth mine hands vnto thee: my soule desireth after thee, as the thirstie land. Selah.
Psalm 143:7	Heare me spedely, O Lord, for my spirit faeleth: hide not thy face from me, els I shall be like vnto them that go downe into the pit.
Psalm 143:8	Let me heare thy louing kindenes in the morning, for in thee is my trust: shewe mee the waie, that I should walke in, for I lift vp my soule vnto thee.
Psalm 143:9	Deliuer me, O Lord, from mine enemies: for I hid me with thee.
Psalm 143:10	Teach me to do thy will, for thou art my God: let thy good Spirit leade me vnto the land of righteousnes.
Psalm 143:11	Quicken me, O Lord, for thy Names sake, and for thy righteousnes bring my soule out of trouble.
Psalm 143:12	And for thy mercy slay mine enemies, and destrie all them that oppresse my soule: for I am thy seruant.
Psalm 144:1	A Psalme of David. Blessed be the Lord my strength, which teacheth mine hands to fight, and my fingers to battell.
Psalm 144:2	He is my goodnes and my fortresse, my towre and my deliuerer, my shield, and in him I trust, which subdueth my people vnder me.
Psalm 144:3	Lord, what is man that thou regardest him! or the sonne of man that thou thinkest vpon him!
Psalm 144:4	Man is like to vanitie: his dayes are like a shadow, that vanisheth.
Psalm 144:5	Bow thine heauens, O Lord, and come downe: touch the mountaines and they shall smoke.
Psalm 144:6	Cast forth the lightning and scatter them: shoote out thine arrowes, and consume them.
Psalm 144:7	Send thine hand from aboue: deliuer me, and take me out of the great waters, and from the hand of strangers,
Psalm 144:8	Whose mouth talketh vanitie, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
Psalm 144:9	I wil sing a new song vnto thee, O God, and sing vnto thee vpon a viole, and an instrument of ten strings.
Psalm 144:10	It is he that giueth deliuerance vnto Kings, and rescueth Dauid his seruant from the hurtfull sworde.
Psalm 144:11	Rescue me, and deliuer me from the hand of strangers, whose mouth talketh vanitie, and their right hand is a right hand of falshood:
Psalm 144:12	That our sonnes may be as the plantes growing vp in their youth, and our daughters as the corner stones, grauen after the similitude of a palace:
Psalm 144:13	That our corners may be full, and abounding with diuers sorts, and that our sheepe may bring forth thousands and ten thousand in our streetes:
Psalm 144:14	That our oxen may be strong to labour: that there be none inuasion, nor going out, nor no crying in our streetes.
Psalm 144:15	Blessed are the people, that be so, yea, blessed are the people, whose God is the Lord.
Psalm 145:1	A Psalme of David of Praise. O my God and King, I will extold thee, and will blesse thy Name for euer and euer.
Psalm 145:2	I will blesse thee dayly, and prayse thy Name for euer and euer.
Psalm 145:3	Great is the Lord, and most worthy to be praysed, and his greatnes is incomprehensible.
Psalm 145:4	Generation shall praise thy works vnto generation, and declare thy power.
Psalm 145:5	I wil meditate of the beautie of thy glorious maiestie, and thy wonderfull workes,
Psalm 145:6	And they shall speake of the power of thy fearefull actes, and I will declare thy greatnes.
Psalm 145:7	They shall breake out into the mention of thy great goodnes, and shall sing aloude of thy righteousnesse.
Psalm 145:8	The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great mercie.
Psalm 145:9	The Lord is good to all, and his mercies are ouer all his workes.
Psalm 145:10	All thy workes prayse thee, O Lord, and thy Saints blesse thee.
Psalm 145:11	They shewe the glory of thy kingdome, and speake of thy power,
Psalm 145:12	To cause his power to be knowen to the sonnes of men, and the glorious renoume of his kingdome.
Psalm 145:13	Thy kingdome is an euerlasting kingdome, and thy dominion endureth throughout all ages.
Psalm 145:14	The Lord vpholdeth all that fall, and lifteth vp all that are ready to fall.
Psalm 145:15	The eyes of all waite vpon thee, and thou giuest them their meate in due season.
Psalm 145:16	Thou openest thine hand, and fillest all things liuing of thy good pleasure.
Psalm 145:17	The Lord is righteous in all his wayes, and holy in all his workes.
Psalm 145:18	The Lord is neere vnto all that call vpon him: yea, to all that call vpon him in trueth.
Psalm 145:19	He wil fulfill the desire of them that feare him: he also wil heare their cry, and wil saue them.
Psalm 145:20	The Lord preserueth all them that loue him: but he will destroy all the wicked.
Psalm 145:21	My mouth shall speake the prayse of the Lord, and all flesh shall blesse his holy Name for euer and euer.
Psalm 146:1	Praise ye the Lord. Praise thou the Lord, O my soule.
Psalm 146:2	I will prayse the Lord during my life: as long as I haue any being, I wil sing vnto my God.
Psalm 146:3	Put not your trust in princes, nor in the sonne of man, for there is none helpe in him.
Psalm 146:4	His breath departeth, and he returneth to his earth: then his thoughtes perish.
Psalm 146:5	Blessed is he, that hath the God of Iaakob for his helpe, whose hope is in the Lord his God.
Psalm 146:6	Which made heauen and earth, the sea, and all that therein is: which keepeth his fidelitie for euer:
Psalm 146:7	Which executeth iustice for the oppressed: which giueth bread to the hungry: the Lord loseth the prisoners.
Psalm 146:8	The Lord giueth sight to the blinde: the Lord rayseth vp the crooked: the Lord loueth the righteous.
Psalm 146:9	The Lord keepeth the strangers: he relieueth the fatherlesse and widowe: but he ouerthroweth the way of the wicked.
Psalm 146:10	The Lord shall reigne for euer: O Zion, thy God endureth from generation to generation. Prayse ye the Lord.
Psalm 147:1	Praise ye the Lord, for it is good to sing vnto our God: for it is a pleasant thing, and praise is comely.
Psalm 147:2	The Lord doth builde vp Ierusalem, and gather together the dispersed of Israel.
Psalm 147:3	He healeth those that are broken in heart, and bindeth vp their sores.
Psalm 147:4	He counteth the nomber of the starres, and calleth them all by their names.
Psalm 147:5	Great is our Lord, and great is his power: his wisdome is infinite.
Psalm 147:6	The Lord relieueth the meeke, and abaseth the wicked to the ground.
Psalm 147:7	Sing vnto the Lord with prayse: sing vpon the harpe vnto our God,
Psalm 147:8	Which couereth the heauen with cloudes, and prepareth raine for the earth, and maketh the grasse to growe vpon the mountaines:
Psalm 147:9	Which giueth to beasts their foode, and to the yong rauens that crie.
Psalm 147:10	He hath not pleasure in the strength of an horse, neither delighteth he in the legs of man.
Psalm 147:11	But the Lord deliteth in them that feare him, and attende vpon his mercie.
Psalm 147:12	Prayse the Lord, O Ierusalem: prayse thy God, O Zion.
Psalm 147:13	For he hath made the barres of thy gates strong, and hath blessed thy children within thee.
Psalm 147:14	He setteth peace in thy borders, and satisfieth thee with the floure of wheate.
Psalm 147:15	He sendeth foorth his commandement vpon earth, and his worde runneth very swiftly.
Psalm 147:16	He giueth snowe like wooll, and scattereth the hoare frost like ashes.
Psalm 147:17	He casteth foorth his yce like morsels: who can abide the colde thereof?
Psalm 147:18	He sendeth his worde and melteth them: he causeth his winde to blowe, and the waters flowe.
Psalm 147:19	He sheweth his word vnto Iaakob, his statutes and his iudgements vnto Israel.
Psalm 147:20	He hath not dealt so with euery nation, neither haue they knowen his iudgements. Prayse ye the Lord.
Psalm 148:1	Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the Lord from the heauen: prayse ye him in the high places.
Psalm 148:2	Prayse ye him, all ye his Angels: praise him, all his armie.
Psalm 148:3	Prayse ye him, sunne and moone: prayse ye him all bright starres.
Psalm 148:4	Prayse ye him, heauens of heauens, and waters, that be aboue the heauens.
Psalm 148:5	Let them prayse the Name of the Lord: for he commanded, and they were created.
Psalm 148:6	And he hath established them for euer and euer: he hath made an ordinance, which shall not passe.
Psalm 148:7	Prayse ye the Lord from the earth, ye dragons and all depths:
Psalm 148:8	Fire and hayle, snowe and vapours, stormie winde, which execute his worde:
Psalm 148:9	Mountaines and all hils, fruitfull trees and all ceders:
Psalm 148:10	Beasts and all cattell, creeping things and fethered foules:
Psalm 148:11	Kings of the earth and all people, princes and all iudges of the worlde:
Psalm 148:12	Yong men and maidens, also olde men and children:
Psalm 148:13	Let them prayse the Name of the Lord: for his Name onely is to be exalted, and his prayse aboue the earth and the heauens.
Psalm 148:14	For he hath exalted the horne of his people, which is a prayse for all his Saintes, euen for the children of Israel, a people that is neere vnto him. Prayse ye the Lord.
Psalm 149:1	Praise ye the Lord. Sing ye vnto the Lord a newe song: let his prayse be heard in the Congregation of Saints.
Psalm 149:2	Let Israel reioyce in him that made him, and let ye children of Zion reioyce in their King.
Psalm 149:3	Let them prayse his Name with the flute: let them sing prayses vnto him with the timbrell and harpe.
Psalm 149:4	For the Lord hath pleasure in his people: he will make the meeke glorious by deliuerance.
Psalm 149:5	Let ye Saints be ioyfull with glorie: let them sing loud vpon their beddes.
Psalm 149:6	Let the high Actes of God bee in their mouth, and a two edged sword in their hands,
Psalm 149:7	To execute vengeance vpon the heathen, and corrections among the people:
Psalm 149:8	To binde their Kings in chaines, and their nobles with fetters of yron,
Psalm 149:9	That they may execute vpon them the iudgement that is written: this honour shall be to all his Saintes. Prayse ye the Lord.
Psalm 150:1	Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye God in his Sanctuarie: prayse ye him in the firmament of his power.
Psalm 150:2	Prayse ye him in his mightie Actes: prayse ye him according to his excellent greatnesse.
Psalm 150:3	Prayse ye him in the sounde of the trumpet: prayse yee him vpon the viole and the harpe.
Psalm 150:4	Prayse ye him with timbrell and flute: praise ye him with virginales and organs.
Psalm 150:5	Prayse ye him with sounding cymbales: prayse ye him with high sounding cymbales.
Psalm 150:6	Let euery thing that hath breath prayse the Lord. Prayse ye the Lord.

===== BOOK: Revelation =====
Revelation 1:1	The Reuelation of Iesus Christ, which God gaue vnto him, to shewe vnto his seruants things which must shortly be done: which he sent, and shewed by his Angel vnto his seruant Iohn,
Revelation 1:2	Who bare record of ye word of God, and of the testimonie of Iesus Christ, and of all things that he saw.
Revelation 1:3	Blessed is he that readeth, and they that heare the wordes of this prophecie, and keepe those things which are written therein: for the time is at hand.
Revelation 1:4	Iohn, to the seuen Churches which are in Asia, Grace be with you, and peace from him, Which is, and Which was, and Which is to come, and from the seuen Spirits which are before his Throne,
Revelation 1:5	And from Iesus Christ, which is that faithful witnes, and that first begotten of the dead, and that Prince of the Kings of the earth, vnto him that loued vs, and washed vs from our sinnes in his blood,
Revelation 1:6	And made vs Kings and Priests vnto God euen his Father, to him I say be glory, and dominion for euermore, Amen.
Revelation 1:7	Beholde, he commeth with cloudes, and euery eye shall see him: yea, euen they which pearced him thorowe: and all kinreds of the earth shall waile before him, Euen so, Amen.
Revelation 1:8	I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, Which is, and Which was, and Which is to come, euen the Almightie.
Revelation 1:9	I Iohn, euen your brother, and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdome and patience of Iesus Christ, was in the yle called Patmos, for the worde of God, and for the witnessing of Iesus Christ.
Revelation 1:10	And I was rauished in spirit on the Lordes day, and heard behinde me a great voyce, as it had bene of a trumpet,
Revelation 1:11	Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, that first and that last: and that which thou seest, write in a booke, and send it vnto the seuen Churches which are in Asia, vnto Ephesus, and vnto Smyrna, and vnto Pergamus, and vnto Thyatira, and vnto Sardis, and vnto Philadelphia, and vnto Laodicea.
Revelation 1:12	Then I turned backe to see the voyce, that spake with me: and when I was turned, I sawe seuen golden candlestickes,
Revelation 1:13	And in the middes of the seuen candlestickes, one like vnto the Sonne of man, clothed with a garment downe to the feete, and girded about the pappes with a golden girdle.
Revelation 1:14	His head, and heares were white as white wooll, and as snowe, and his eyes were as a flame of fire,
Revelation 1:15	And his feete like vnto fine brasse, burning as in a fornace: and his voyce as the sounde of many waters.
Revelation 1:16	And he had in his right hand seuen starres: and out of his mouth went a sharpe two edged sword: and his face shone as the sunne shineth in his strength.
Revelation 1:17	And when I saw him, I fell at his feete as dead: then he laid his right hand vpon me, saying vnto me, Feare not: I am that first and that last,
Revelation 1:18	And am aliue, but I was dead: and beholde, I am aliue for euermore, Amen: and I haue the keyes of hell and of death.
Revelation 1:19	Write the things which thou hast seene, and the things which are, and the things which shall come hereafter.
Revelation 1:20	The misterie of the seuen starres which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seuen golden candlestickes, is this, The seuen starres are the Angels of the seuen Churches: and the seuen candlestickes which thou sawest, are the seuen Churches.
Revelation 2:1	VNto the Angel of the Church of Ephesus write, These things saieth he that holdeth the seuen starres in his right hand, and walketh in the middes of the seuen golden candlestickes.
Revelation 2:2	I knowe thy workes, and thy labour, and thy patience, and howe thou canst not beare with them which are euill, and hast examined them which say they are Apostles, and are not, and hast found the liars.
Revelation 2:3	And thou wast burdened, and hast patience, and for my Names sake hast laboured, and hast not fainted.
Revelation 2:4	Neuertheles, I haue somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first loue.
Revelation 2:5	Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and doe the first workes: or els I will come against thee shortly, and will remooue thy candlesticke out of his place, except thou amend.
Revelation 2:6	But this thou hast, that thou hatest the workes of the Nicolaitanes, which I also hate.
Revelation 2:7	Let him that hath an eare, heare, what the Spirite saith vnto the Churches, To him that ouercommeth, will I giue to eate of the tree of life which is in the middes of the Paradise of God.
Revelation 2:8	And vnto the Angel of the Church of the Smyrnians write, These things saith he that is first, and last, which was dead and is aliue.
Revelation 2:9	I knowe thy workes and tribulation, and pouertie (but thou art riche) and I knowe the blasphemie of them, which say they are Iewes, and are not, but are the Synagogue of Satan.
Revelation 2:10	Feare none of those things, which thou shalt suffer: beholde, it shall come to passe, that the deuill shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tryed, and ye shall haue tribulation tenne dayes: be thou faithfull vnto the death, and I will giue thee the crowne of life.
Revelation 2:11	Let him that hath an eare, heare what the Spirit saith to the Churches. He that ouercommeth, shall not be hurt of the second death.
Revelation 2:12	And to the Angel of the Church, which is at Pergamus write, This saith he which hath that sharpe sworde with two edges.
Revelation 2:13	I knowe thy workes and where thou dwellest, euen where Satans throne is, and thou keepest my Name, and hast not denied my faith, euen in those dayes when Antipas my faithfull martyr was slaine among you, where Satan dwelleth.
Revelation 2:14	But I haue a fewe things against thee, because thou hast there them that maintaine the doctrine of Balaam, which taught Balac to put a stumbling blocke before ye children of Israel, that they should eate of things sacrificed vnto Idoles, and commit fornication.
Revelation 2:15	Euen so hast thou them, that maintaine the doctrine of the Nicolaitanes, which thing I hate.
Revelation 2:16	Repent thy selfe, or els I will come vnto thee shortly, and will fight against them with the sworde of my mouth.
Revelation 2:17	Let him that hath an eare, heare what the Spirite saith vnto the Churches. To him that ouercommeth, will I giue to eate of the Manna that is hid, and will giue him a white stone, and in the stone a newe name written, which no man knoweth sauing he that receiueth it.
Revelation 2:18	And vnto ye Angel of the Church which is at Thyatira write, These things saith the Sonne of God, which hath his eyes like vnto a flame of fire, and his feete like fine brasse.
Revelation 2:19	I knowe thy workes and thy loue, and seruice, and faith, and thy patience, and thy workes, and that they are more at the last, then at the first.
Revelation 2:20	Notwithstanding, I haue a few things against thee, that thou sufferest the woman Iezabel, which calleth her selfe a prophetesse, to teache and to deceiue my seruants to make them commit fornication, and to eate meates sacrificed vnto idoles.
Revelation 2:21	And I gaue her space to repent of her fornication, and she repented not.
Revelation 2:22	Beholde, I will cast her into a bed, and them that commit fornication with her, into great affliction, except they repent them of their workes.
Revelation 2:23	And I will kill her children with death: and all the Churches shall know that I am he which searche the reines and heartes: and I will giue vnto euery one of you according vnto your workes.
Revelation 2:24	And vnto you I say, the rest of them of Thyatira, As many as haue not this learning, neither haue knowen the deepenes of Satan (as they speake) I will put vpon you none other burden.
Revelation 2:25	But that which ye haue alreadie, hold fast till I come.
Revelation 2:26	For he that ouercommeth and keepeth my workes vnto the end, to him will I giue power ouer nations,
Revelation 2:27	And he shall rule them with a rodde of yron: and as the vessels of a potter, shall they be broken.
Revelation 2:28	Euen as I receiued of my Father, so will I giue him the morning starre.
Revelation 2:29	Let him that hath an eare, heare what the Spirite saith to the Churches.
Revelation 3:1	ANd write vnto the Angel of the Church which is at Sardis, These things saith he that hath the seuen Spirits of God, and the seuen starres, I knowe thy workes: for thou hast a name that thou liuest, but thou art dead.
Revelation 3:2	Be awake, and strengthen the things which remaine, that are readie to die: for I haue not found thy workes perfite before God.
Revelation 3:3	Remember therefore, how thou hast receiued and heard, and hold fast and repent. If therefore thou wilt not watch, I will come on thee as a thiefe, and thou shalt not know what houre I wil come vpon thee.
Revelation 3:4	Notwithstanding thou hast a few names yet in Sardis, which haue not defiled their garments: and they shall walke with me in white: for they are worthy.
Revelation 3:5	He that ouercommeth, shalbe clothed in white araye, and I will not put out his name out of the booke of life, but I will confesse his name before my Father, and before his Angels.
Revelation 3:6	Let him that hath an eare, heare, what the Spirite saith vnto the Churches.
Revelation 3:7	And write vnto ye Angel of ye Church which is of Philadelphia, These things saith he that is Holy, and True, which hath ye keye of Dauid, which openeth and no man shutteth, and shutteth and no man openeth,
Revelation 3:8	I knowe thy workes: beholde, I haue set before thee an open doore, and no man can shut it: for thou hast a litle strength and hast kept my worde, and hast not denied my Name.
Revelation 3:9	Behold, I will make them of the Synagogue of Satan, which call themselues Iewes, and are not, but doe lye: beholde, I say, I will make them, that they shall come and worship before thy feete, and shall knowe that I haue loued thee.
Revelation 3:10	Because thou hast kept the woorde of my patience, therefore I wil deliuer thee from the houre of tentation, which will come vpon all the world, to trie them that dwell vpon the earth.
Revelation 3:11	Beholde, I come shortly: holde that which thou hast, that no man take thy crowne.
Revelation 3:12	Him that ouercommeth, will I make a pillar in the Temple of my God, and he shall goe no more out: and I will write vpon him the Name of my God, and the name of the citie of my God, which is the newe Hierusalem, which commeth downe out of heauen from my God, and I will write vpon him my newe Name.
Revelation 3:13	Let him that hath an eare, heare what ye Spirit saith vnto the Churches.
Revelation 3:14	And vnto the Angell of the Church of the Laodiceans write, These things saieth Amen, the faithfull and true witnesse, that beginning of the creatures of God.
Revelation 3:15	I knowe thy woorkes, that thou art neither colde nor hote: I woulde thou werest colde or hote.
Revelation 3:16	Therefore, because thou art luke warme, and neither colde nor hote, it will come to passe, that I shall spewe thee out of my mouth.
Revelation 3:17	For thou saiest, I am rich and increased with goods, and haue neede of nothing, and knowest not howe thou art wretched and miserable, and poore, and blinde, and naked.
Revelation 3:18	I counsell thee to bye of me gold tried by the fire, that thou maiest bee made rich: and white raiment, that thou maiest be clothed, and that thy filthie nakednesse doe not appeare: and anoynt thine eyes with eye salue, that thou maiest see.
Revelation 3:19	As many as I loue, I rebuke and chasten: be zealous therefore and amend.
Revelation 3:20	Behold, I stand at the doore, and knocke. If any man heare my voice and open ye doore, I wil come in vnto him, and will suppe with him, and he with me.
Revelation 3:21	To him that ouercommeth, will I graunt to sit with me in my throne, euen as I ouercame, and sit with my Father in his throne.
Revelation 3:22	Let him that hath an eare, heare what the Spirit saieth vnto the Churches.
Revelation 4:1	After this I looked, and beholde, a doore was open in heauen, and the first voyce which I heard, was as it were of a trumpet talking with mee, saying, Come vp hither, and I will shewe thee things which must be done hereafter.
Revelation 4:2	And immediatly I was rauished in the spirit, and behold, a throne was set in heauen, and one sate vpon the throne.
Revelation 4:3	And he that sate, was to looke vpon, like vnto a iasper stone, and a sardine, and there was a rainbowe rounde about the throne, in sight like to an emeraude.
Revelation 4:4	And round about the throne were foure and twentie seates, and vpon the seates I sawe foure and twentie Elders sitting, clothed in white raiment, and had on their heads crownes of golde.
Revelation 4:5	And out of the throne proceeded lightnings, and thundrings, and voyces, and there were seuen lampes of fire burning before the throne, which are the seuen spirits of God.
Revelation 4:6	And before the throne there was a sea of glasse like vnto chrystall: and in the middes of the throne, and round about the throne were foure beasts full of eyes before and behinde.
Revelation 4:7	And the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like a calfe, and the thirde beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying Eagle.
Revelation 4:8	And the foure beasts had eche one of them sixe wings about him, and they were full of eyes within, and they ceased not day nor night, saying, Holy, holy, holy Lord God almighty, Which Was, and Which Is, and Which Is to come.
Revelation 4:9	And when those beasts gaue glorie, and honour, and thanks to him that sate on the throne, which liueth for euer and euer,
Revelation 4:10	The foure and twentie Elders fell downe before him that sate on the throne and worshipped him that liueth for euermore, and cast their crownes before the throne, saying,
Revelation 4:11	Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receiue glory and honour, and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy wils sake they are, and haue beene created.
Revelation 5:1	And I saw in the right hand of him that sate vpon the throne, a Booke written within, and on the backside, sealed with seuen seales.
Revelation 5:2	And I sawe a strong Angell which preached with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open ye booke, and to loose the seales thereof?
Revelation 5:3	And no man in heauen, nor in earth, neither vnder the earth, was able to open the Booke, neither to looke thereon.
Revelation 5:4	Then I wept much, because no man was foud worthy to open, and to reade the Booke, neither to looke thereon.
Revelation 5:5	And one of the Elders saide vnto me, Weepe not: beholde, that Lion which is of the tribe of Iuda, that roote of Dauid, hath obteined to open the Booke, and to loose the seuen seales thereof.
Revelation 5:6	Then I behelde, and loe, in the middes of the throne, and of the foure beasts, and in the mids of the Elders, stoode a Labe as though he had bene killed, which had seuen hornes, and seuen eyes, which are the seuen spirites of God, sent into all the world.
Revelation 5:7	And hee came, and tooke the Booke out of the right hand of him that sate vpon the throne.
Revelation 5:8	And when he had taken ye Booke, ye foure beasts and the foure and twenty Elders fel downe before the Lambe, hauing euery one harps and golden vials full of odours, which are the praiers of the Saintes,
Revelation 5:9	And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthie to take the Booke, and to open the seales thereof, because thou wast killed, and hast redeemed vs to God by thy blood out of euery kinred, and tongue, and people, and nation,
Revelation 5:10	And hast made vs vnto our God Kings and Priests, and we shall reigne on the earth.
Revelation 5:11	Then I behelde, and I heard the voice of many Angels round about the throne, and about the beastes and the Elders, and there were ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousand thousands,
Revelation 5:12	Saying with a loude voice, Worthie is the Lambe that was killed to receiue power, and riches, and wisdome, and strength, and honour, and glory, and praise.
Revelation 5:13	And al the creatures which are in heauen, and on the earth, and vnder the earth, and in the sea, and al that are in them, heard I, saying, Praise, and honour, and glory, and power be vnto him, that sitteth vpon the throne, and vnto the Lambe for euermore.
Revelation 5:14	And the foure beasts said, Amen, and the foure and twentie Elders fell downe and worshipped him that liueth for euermore.
Revelation 6:1	After, I beheld whe the Lambe had opened one of the seales, and I heard one of the foure beastes say, as it were the noise of thunder, Come and see.
Revelation 6:2	Therefore I behelde, and loe, there was a white horse, and hee that sate on him, had a bowe, and a crowne was giuen vnto him, and he went forth conquering that he might ouercome.
Revelation 6:3	And when he had opened the seconde seale, I heard the second beast say, Come and see.
Revelation 6:4	And there went out an other horse, that was red, and power was giuen to him that sate thereon, to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another, and there was giuen vnto him a great sword.
Revelation 6:5	And when hee had opened the thirde seale, I heard the thirde beast say, Come and see: Then I behelde, and loe, a blacke horse, and he that sate on him, had balances in his hand.
Revelation 6:6	And I heard a voice in the mids of the foure beastes say, A measure of wheate for a penie, and three measures of barly for a peny, and oyle, and wine hurt thou not.
Revelation 6:7	And when he had opened the fourth seale, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say, Come and see.
Revelation 6:8	And I looked, and beholde, a pale horse, and his name that sate on him was Death, and Hell folowed after him, and power was giuen vnto them ouer the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sworde, and with hunger, and with death, and with beasts of the earth.
Revelation 6:9	And when hee had opened the fifth seale, I sawe vnder the altar the soules of them, that were killed for the worde of God, and for the testimonie which they mainteined.
Revelation 6:10	And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, Lord, which art holie and true! doest not thou iudge and auenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?
Revelation 6:11	And long white robes were giuen vnto euery one, and it was saide vnto them, that they shoulde rest for a litle season vntill their fellow seruants, and their brethren that shoulde bee killed euen as they were, were fulfilled.
Revelation 6:12	And I behelde when hee had opened the sixt seale, and loe, there was a great earthquake, and the sunne was as blacke as sackecloth of heare, and the moone was like blood.
Revelation 6:13	And the starres of heauen fell vnto the earth, as a figge tree casteth her greene figges when it is shaken of a mightie winde.
Revelation 6:14	And heauen departed away, as a scroule, when it is rolled, and euery mountaine and yle were mooued out of their places.
Revelation 6:15	And the Kinges of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chiefe captaines, and the mighty men, and euery bondman, and euery free man, hid themselues in dennes, and among the rockes of the mountaines,
Revelation 6:16	And said to the mountaines and rocks, Fal on vs, and hide vs from the presence of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lambe.
Revelation 6:17	For the great day of his wrath is come, and who can stand?
Revelation 7:1	And after that, I sawe foure Angels stand on the foure corners of the earth, holding the foure windes of the earth, that the winds should not blow on the earth, neither on the sea, neither on any tree.
Revelation 7:2	And I sawe another Angel come vp from the East, which had the seale of the liuing God, and hee cried with a loud voice to the foure Angels to who power was giuen to hurt the earth, and the sea, saying,
Revelation 7:3	Hurt ye not the earth, neither the sea, neither the trees, til we haue sealed the seruants of our God in their foreheads.
Revelation 7:4	And I heard the number of them, which were sealed, and there were sealed an hundreth and foure and fourtie thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel.
Revelation 7:5	Of the tribe of Iuda were sealed twelue thousande. Of the tribe of Ruben were sealed twelue thousande. Of the tribe of Gad were sealed twelue thousande.
Revelation 7:6	Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelue thousand. Of the tribe of Nephthali were sealed twelue thousand. Of the tribe of Manasses were sealed twelue thousand.
Revelation 7:7	Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelue thousande. Of the tribe of Leui were sealed twelue thousande. Of the tribe of Issachar were sealed twelue thousand. Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelue thousand.
Revelation 7:8	Of the tribe of Ioseph were sealed twelue thousande. Of the tribe of Beniamin were sealed twelue thousand.
Revelation 7:9	After these thinges I behelde, and loe a great multitude, which no man coulde number, of all nations and kindreds, and people, and tongues, stoode before the throne, and before the Lambe, clothed with long white robes, and palmes in their hands.
Revelation 7:10	And they cried with a loud voice, saying, Saluation commeth of our God, that sitteth vpon the throne, and of the Lambe.
Revelation 7:11	And all the Angels stoode rounde about the throne, and about the Elders, and the foure beastes, and they fell before the throne on their faces, and worshipped God,
Revelation 7:12	Saying, Amen. Praise, and glorie, and wisdom, and thankes, and honour, and power, and might bee vnto our God for euermore, Amen.
Revelation 7:13	And one of the Elders spake, saying vnto me, What are these which are araied in log white robes? and whence came they?
Revelation 7:14	And I saide vnto him, Lord, thou knowest. And he saide to me, These are they, which came out of great tribulation, and haue washed their long robes, and haue made their long robes white in the blood of the Lambe.
Revelation 7:15	Therefore are they in the presence of the throne of God, and serue him day and night in his Temple, and he that sitteth on the throne, wil dwell among them.
Revelation 7:16	They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more, neither shall the sunne light on them, neither any heate.
Revelation 7:17	For the Lambe, which is in the middes of the throne, shall gouerne them, and shall leade them vnto the liuely fountaines of waters, and God shall wipe away all teares from their eyes.
Revelation 8:1	And when he had opened the seuenth seale, there was silence in heauen about halfe an houre.
Revelation 8:2	And I sawe the seuen Angels, which stoode before God, and to them were giuen seuen trumpets.
Revelation 8:3	Then another Angel came and stoode before the altar hauing a golden censer, and much odours was giuen vnto him, that hee shoulde offer with the prayers of all Saintes vpon the golden altar, which is before the throne.
Revelation 8:4	And the smoke of the odours with the prayers of the Saintes, went vp before God, out of the Angels hand.
Revelation 8:5	And the Angel tooke the censer, and filled it with fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth, and there were voyces, and thundrings, and lightnings, and earthquake.
Revelation 8:6	Then the seuen Angels, which had the seuen trumpets, prepared themselues to blow the trumpets.
Revelation 8:7	So the first Angell blewe the trumpet, and there was haile and fire, mingled with blood, and they were cast into the earth, and the thirde part of trees was burnt, and all greene grasse was burnt.
Revelation 8:8	And the second Angel blew the trumpet, and as it were a great mountaine, burning with fire, was cast into the sea, and the thirde part of the sea became blood.
Revelation 8:9	And the thirde part of the creatures, which were in the sea, and had life, died, and the thirde part of shippes were destroyed.
Revelation 8:10	Then the thirde Angel blew the trumpet, and there fell a great starre from heauen, burning like a torche, and it fell into the thirde part of the riuers, and into the fountaines of waters.
Revelation 8:11	And the name of the starre is called wormewood: therefore the thirde part of the waters became wormewood, and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.
Revelation 8:12	And the fourth Angel blew the trumpet, and the thirde part of the sunne was smitten, and the thirde part of the moone, and the thirde part of the starres, so that the thirde part of them was darkened: and the day was smitten, that the thirde part of it could not shine, and likewise the night.
Revelation 8:13	And I beheld, and heard one Angel flying thorow the middes of heauen, saying with a loude voyce, Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitants of the earth, because of the sounds to come of the trumpet of the three Angels, which were yet to blowe the trumpets.
Revelation 9:1	And the fifth Angel blew the trumpet, and I saw a starre fall from heauen vnto the earth, and to him was giuen the key of the bottomlesse pit.
Revelation 9:2	And he opened the bottomlesse pit, and there arose the smoke of the pit, as the smoke of a great fornace, and the sunne, and the ayre were darkened by the smoke of the pit.
Revelation 9:3	And there came out of the smoke Locustes vpon the earth, and vnto them was giuen power, as the scorpions of the earth haue power.
Revelation 9:4	And it was comanded them, that they should not hurt the grasse of the earth, neither any greene thing, neither any tree: but onely those men which haue not the seale of God in their foreheads.
Revelation 9:5	And to them was comanded that they should not kill them, but that they should be vexed fiue moneths, and that their paine should be as the paine that commeth of a scorpion, when he hath stung a man.
Revelation 9:6	Therefore in those dayes shall men seeke death, and shall not finde it, and shall desire to die, and death shall flie from them.
Revelation 9:7	And the forme of the locustes was like vnto horses prepared vnto battel, and on their heads were as it were crownes, like vnto golde, and their faces were like the faces of men.
Revelation 9:8	And they had heare as the heare of women, and their teeth were as the teeth of lyons.
Revelation 9:9	And they had habbergions, like to habbergions of yron: and the soud of their wings was like the sound of charets whe many horses runne vnto battel.
Revelation 9:10	And they had tailes like vnto scorpions, and there were stings in their tailes, and their power was to hurt men fiue moneths.
Revelation 9:11	And they haue a King ouer them, which is the Angel of the bottomlesse pit, whose name in Hebrewe is Abaddon, and in Greeke he is named Apollyon, that is, destroying.
Revelation 9:12	One woe is past, and beholde, yet two woes come after this.
Revelation 9:13	Then the sixt Angel blew the trumpet, and I heard a voyce from the foure hornes of the golden altar, which is before God,
Revelation 9:14	Saying to the sixt Angel, which had the trumpet, Loose the foure Angels, which are bound in the great riuer Euphrates.
Revelation 9:15	And the foure Angels were loosed, which were prepared at an houre, at a day, at a moneth, and at a yeere, to slay the thirde part of men.
Revelation 9:16	And the nomber of horsemen of warre were twentie thousand times ten thousand: for I heard the nomber of them.
Revelation 9:17	And thus I saw the horses in a vision, and them that sate on them, hauing firie habbergions, and of Iacinth, and of brimstone, and the heads of the horses were as the heades of lyons: and out of their mouthes went foorth fire and smoke and brimstone.
Revelation 9:18	Of these three was the thirde part of men killed, that is, of the fire, and of the smoke, and of the brimstone, which came out of their mouthes.
Revelation 9:19	For their power is in their mouths, and in their tailes: for their tailes were like vnto serpents, and had heades, wherewith they hurt.
Revelation 9:20	And the remnant of the men which were not killed by these plagues, repented not of the works of their handes that they should not worship deuils, and idoles of golde and of siluer, and of brasse, and of stone, and of wood, which neither can see, neither heare nor goe.
Revelation 9:21	Also they repented not of their murder, and of their sorcerie, neither of their fornication, nor of their theft.
Revelation 10:1	And I sawe another mightie Angel come downe from heauen, clothed with a cloude, and the raine bowe vpon his head, and his face was as the sunne, and his feete as pillars of fire.
Revelation 10:2	And hee had in his hande a little booke open, and he put his right foote vpon the sea, and his left on the earth,
Revelation 10:3	And cried with a loude voyce, as when a lyon roareth: and when he had cried, seuen thunders vttered their voyces.
Revelation 10:4	And whe the seuen thunders had vttered their voyces, I was about to write: but I heard a voice from heauen saying vnto me, Seale vp those things which the seuen thunders haue spoken, and write them not.
Revelation 10:5	And the Angel which I sawe stand vpon the sea, and vpon the earth, lift vp his hand to heauen,
Revelation 10:6	And sware by him that liueth for euermore, which created heauen, and the thinges that therein are, and the earth, and the things that therein are, and the sea, and the thinges that therein are, that time should be no more.
Revelation 10:7	But in the dayes of the voyce of the seuenth Angel, when he shall beginne to blow the trumpet, euen the mysterie of God shalbe finished, as he hath declared to his seruants the Prophets.
Revelation 10:8	And the voyce which I heard from heauen, spake vnto me againe, and said, Go and take the litle booke which is open in the hand of the Angel, which standeth vpon the sea and vpon the earth.
Revelation 10:9	So I went vnto the Angel, and saide to him, Giue me the litle booke. And he said vnto me, Take it, and eate it vp, and it shall make thy belly bitter, but it shalbe in thy mouth as sweete as honie.
Revelation 10:10	Then I tooke the litle booke out of ye Angels hand, and ate it vp, and it was in my mouth as sweete as hony: but whe I had eaten it my belly was bitter.
Revelation 10:11	And he said vnto me, Thou must prophecie againe among the people and nations, and tongues, and to many Kings.
Revelation 11:1	Then was giuen me a reede, like vnto a rod, and the Angel stoode by, saying, Rise and mete the Temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein.
Revelation 11:2	But the court which is without the temple cast out, and mete it not: for it is giuen vnto the Gentiles, and the holy citie shall they treade vnder foote, two and fourtie moneths.
Revelation 11:3	But I wil giue power vnto my two witnesses, and they shall prophecie a thousande two hundreth and threescore dayes, clothed in sackcloth.
Revelation 11:4	These are two oliue trees, and two candlestickes, standing before the God of the earth.
Revelation 11:5	And if any man wil hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouthes, and deuoureth their enemies: for if any man would hurt the, thus must he be killed.
Revelation 11:6	These haue power to shut heauen, that it raine not in the dayes of their prophecying, and haue power ouer waters to turne them into blood, and to smite the earth with all maner plagues, as often as they will.
Revelation 11:7	And when they haue finished their testimonie, the beast that commeth out of the bottomlesse pit, shall make warre against them, and shall ouercome them, and kill them.
Revelation 11:8	And their corpses shall lie in the streetes of the great citie, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where our Lord also was crucified.
Revelation 11:9	And they of the people and kinreds, and tongues, and Gentiles shall see their corpses three dayes and an halfe, and shall not suffer their carkeises to be put in graues.
Revelation 11:10	And they that dwell vpon the earth, shall reioyce ouer them and be glad, and shall sende giftes one to an other: for these two Prophets vexed them that dwelt on the earth.
Revelation 11:11	But after three dayes and an halfe, the spirit of life comming from God, shall enter into them, and they shall stande vp vpon their feete: and great feare shall come vpon them which sawe them.
Revelation 11:12	And they shall heare a great voyce from heauen, saying vnto them, Come vp hither. And they shall ascend vp to heauen in a cloude, and their enemies shall see them.
Revelation 11:13	And the same houre shall there bee a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the citie shall fall, and in the earthquake shalbe slaine in nomber seuen thousande: and the remnant were sore feared, and gaue glorie to the God of heauen.
Revelation 11:14	The second woe is past, and beholde, the third woe will come anon.
Revelation 11:15	And the seuenth Angell blewe the trumpet, and there were great voyces in heauen, saying, The kingdomes of this worlde are our Lordes, and his Christes, and he shall reigne for euermore.
Revelation 11:16	Then the foure and twentie Elders, which sate before God on their seates, fell vpon their faces, and worshipped God,
Revelation 11:17	Saying, We giue thee thankes, Lord God almightie, Which art, and Which wast, and Which art to come: for thou hast receiued thy great might, and hast obteined thy kingdome.
Revelation 11:18	And the Gentiles were angrie, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that they shoulde be iudged, and that thou shouldest giue reward vnto thy seruants the Prophets, and to the Saintes, and to them that feare thy Name, to small and great, and shouldest destroy them, which destroy the earth.
Revelation 11:19	Then the Temple of God was opened in heauen, and there was seene in his Temple the Arke of his couenant: and there were lightnings, and voyces, and thundrings, and earthquake, and much haile.
Revelation 12:1	And there appeared a great wonder in heauen: A woman clothed with the sunne, and the moone was vnder her feete, and vpon her head a crowne of twelue starres.
Revelation 12:2	And she was with childe, and cried traueiling in birth, and was pained readie to be deliuered.
Revelation 12:3	And there appeared another wonder in heaue: for beholde, a great red dragon hauing seuen heads, and ten hornes, and seuen crownes vpon his heads:
Revelation 12:4	And his taile drew the thirde part of the starres of heauen, and cast them to the earth. And the dragon stood before the woman, which was ready to be deliuered, to deuoure her childe, when shee had brought it foorth.
Revelation 12:5	So shee brought foorth a man childe, which should rule all nations with a rod of yron: and that her childe was taken vp vnto God and to his throne.
Revelation 12:6	And the woman fled into wildernes where she hath a place prepared of God, that they should feede her there a thousande, two hundreth and three score dayes.
Revelation 12:7	And there was a battell in heauen, Michael and his Angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon fought and his angels.
Revelation 12:8	But they preuailed not, neither was their place found any more in heauen.
Revelation 12:9	And the great dragon, that olde serpent, called the deuil and Satan, was cast out, which deceiueth all the world: he was euen cast into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.
Revelation 12:10	Then I heard a loude voyce in heauen, saying, Now is saluation, and strength, and the kingdome of our God, and the power of his Christ: for the accuser of our brethren is cast downe, which accused them before our God day and night.
Revelation 12:11	But they ouercame him by that blood of that Lambe, and by that worde of their testimonie, and they loued not their liues vnto the death.
Revelation 12:12	Therefore reioyce, ye heauens, and ye that dwell in them. Wo to the inhabitants of the earth, and of the sea: for the deuill is come downe vnto you, which hath great wrath, knowing that he hath but a short time.
Revelation 12:13	And when the dragon sawe that hee was cast vnto the earth, he persecuted the woman which had brought forth the man childe.
Revelation 12:14	But to the woman were giuen two wings of a great eagle, that she might flie into the wildernes, into her place, where she is nourished for a time, and times, and halfe a time, from the presence of the serpent.
Revelation 12:15	And the serpent cast out of his mouth water after the woman, like a flood, that he might cause her to be caried away of the flood.
Revelation 12:16	But the earth holpe the woman, and the earth opened her mouth, and swalowed vp the flood, which the dragon had cast out of his mouth.
Revelation 12:17	Then the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went and made warre with the remnant of her seede, which keepe the comaundements of God, and haue the testimonie of Iesus Christ.
Revelation 12:18	And I stood on the sea sand.
Revelation 13:1	And I saw a beast rise out of the sea, hauing seuen heads, and ten hornes, and vpon his hornes were ten crownes, and vpon his heads the name of blasphemie.
Revelation 13:2	And the beast which I sawe, was like a Leopard, and his feete like a beares, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and the dragon gaue him his power and his throne, and great authoritie.
Revelation 13:3	And I sawe one of his heads as it were wounded to death, but his deadly wound was healed, and all the world wondred and folowed the beast.
Revelation 13:4	And they worshipped the dragon which gaue power vnto the beast, and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like vnto the beast! who is able to warre with him!
Revelation 13:5	And there was giuen vnto him a mouth, that spake great things and blasphemies, and power was giuen vnto him, to doe two and fourtie moneths.
Revelation 13:6	And he opened his mouth vnto blasphemie against God, to blaspheme his Name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heauen.
Revelation 13:7	And it was giuen vnto him to make warre with the Saints, and to ouercome them, and power was giuen him ouer euery kinred, and tongue, and nation.
Revelation 13:8	Therefore all that dwell vpon the earth, shall worship him, whose names are not written in the booke of life of that Lambe, which was slaine from the beginning of the world.
Revelation 13:9	If any man haue an eare, let him heare.
Revelation 13:10	If any leade into captiuitie, hee shall go into captiuitie: if any kill with a sword, he must be killed by a sword: here is the patience and the faith of the Saints.
Revelation 13:11	And I beheld another beast comming vp out of the earth, which had two hornes like the Lambe, but he spake like the dragon.
Revelation 13:12	And he did all that the first beast could doe before him, and he caused the earth, and them which dwell therein, to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed.
Revelation 13:13	And he did great wonders, so that hee made fire to come downe from heauen on the earth, in the sight of men,
Revelation 13:14	And deceiued them that dwell on the earth by the signes, which were permitted to him to doe in the sight of the beast, saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make the image of the beast, which had the wound of a sword, and did liue.
Revelation 13:15	And it was permitted to him to giue a spirit vnto the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast should speake, and should cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast, should be killed.
Revelation 13:16	And he made all, both small and great, rich and poore, free and bond, to receiue a marke in their right hand or in their foreheads,
Revelation 13:17	And that no man might buy or sell, saue hee that had the marke, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.
Revelation 13:18	Here is wisdome. Let him that hath wit, count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man, and his number is sixe hundreth threescore and sixe.
Revelation 14:1	Then I looked, and lo, a Lambe stood on mount Sion, and with him an hundreth, fourtie and foure thousand, hauing his Fathers Name written in their foreheads.
Revelation 14:2	And I heard a voyce from heauen, as the sound of many waters, and as the sound of a great thunder: and I heard the voyce of harpers harping with their harpes.
Revelation 14:3	And they sung as it were a newe song before the throne, and before the foure beasts, and the Elders: and no man could learne that song, but the hundreth, fourtie and foure thousand, which were bought from the earth.
Revelation 14:4	These are they, which are not defiled with women: for they are virgins: these follow the Lambe whithersoeuer he goeth: these are bought from men, being the first fruites vnto God, and to the Lambe.
Revelation 14:5	And in their mouthes was found no guile: for they are without spot before the throne of God.
Revelation 14:6	Then I sawe another Angel flie in the mids of heauen, hauing an euerlasting Gospel, to preach vnto them that dwell on the earth, and to euery nation, and kinred, and tongue, and people,
Revelation 14:7	Saying with a loude voyce, Feare God, and giue glory to him: for the houre of his iugdement is come: and woriship him that made heauen and earth, and the sea, and the fountaines of waters.
Revelation 14:8	And there followed another Angel, saying, Babylon that great citie is fallen, it is fallen: for she made all nations to drinke of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
Revelation 14:9	And the third Angel followed them, saying with a loude voyce, If any man worship the beast and his image, and receiue his marke in his forehead, or on his hand,
Revelation 14:10	The same shall drinke of the wine of ye wrath of God, yea, of the pure wine, which is powred into the cup of his wrath, and he shalbe tormented in fire and brimstone before the holy Angels, and before the Lambe.
Revelation 14:11	And the smoke of their torment shall ascend euermore: and they shall haue no rest day nor night, which worship the beast and his image, and whosoeuer receiueth the print of his name.
Revelation 14:12	Here is the patience of Saints: here are they that keepe the commandements of God, and the fayth of Iesus.
Revelation 14:13	Then I heard a voyce from heauen, saying vnto me, Write, The dead which die in the Lord, are fully blessed. Euen so sayth the Spirit: for they rest from their labours, and their workes follow them.
Revelation 14:14	And I looked, and behold, a white cloude, and vpon the cloude one sitting like vnto the Sonne of man, hauing on his head a golden crowne, and in his hand a sharpe sickle.
Revelation 14:15	And another Angel came out of the Temple, crying with a loude voyce to him that sate on the cloude, Thrust in thy sickle and reape: for the time is come to reape: for the haruest of the earth is ripe.
Revelation 14:16	And he that sate on the cloude, thrust in his sickle on the earth, and the earth was reaped.
Revelation 14:17	Then an other Angel came out of the Temple, which is in heauen, hauing also a sharpe sickle.
Revelation 14:18	And another Angel came out from the altar, which had power ouer fire, and cryed with a loude crie to him that had the sharpe sickle, and sayd, Thrust in thy sharpe sickle, and gather the clusters of the vineyard of the earth: for her grapes are ripe.
Revelation 14:19	And the Angel thrust in his sharpe sickle on the earth, and cut downe the vines of the vineyard of the earth, and cast them into that great wine presse of the wrath of God.
Revelation 14:20	And the wine presse was troden without the citie, and blood came out of the wine presse, vnto the horse bridles, by the space of a thousand and sixe hundreth furlongs.
Revelation 15:1	And I sawe another signe in heauen, great and marueilous, seuen Angels, hauing the seuen last plagues: for by them is fulfilled the wrath of God.
Revelation 15:2	And I sawe as it were a glassie sea, mingled with fire, and them that had gotten victorie of the beast, and of his image, and of his marke, and of the number of his name, stand at the glassie sea, hauing the harpes of God,
Revelation 15:3	And they sung the song of Moses the seruant of God, and the song of the Lambe, saying, Great and marueilous are thy workes, Lord God almightie: iust and true are thy wayes, King of Saints.
Revelation 15:4	Who shall not feare thee, O Lord, and glorifie thy Name! for thou onely art holy, and all nations shall come and worship before thee: for thy iudgements are made manifest.
Revelation 15:5	And after that, I looked, and beholde, the Temple of the tabernacle of testimonie was open in heauen.
Revelation 15:6	And the seuen Angels came out of the Temple, which had the seuen plagues, clothed in pure and bright linnen, and hauing their breasts girded with golden girdles.
Revelation 15:7	And one of the foure beastes gaue vnto the seuen Angels seuen golden vials full of the wrath of God, which liueth for euermore.
Revelation 15:8	And the Temple was full of the smoke of the glory of God and of his power, and no man was able to enter into the Temple, till the seuen plagues of the seuen Angels were fulfilled.
Revelation 16:1	And I heard a great voyce out of the Temple, saying to the seuen Angels, Go your wayes, and powre out the seuen vials of the wrath of God vpon the earth.
Revelation 16:2	And the first went and powred out his viall vpon the earth: and there fell a noysome, and a grieuous sore vpon the men, which had the marke of ye beast, and vpon them which worshipped his image.
Revelation 16:3	And the second Angel powred out his viall vpon the sea, and it became as the blood of a dead man: and euery liuing thing dyed in the sea.
Revelation 16:4	And the third Angel powred out his viall vpon the riuers and fountaines of waters, and they became blood.
Revelation 16:5	And I heard the Angel of the waters say, Lord, thou art iust, Which art, and Which wast: and Holy, because thou hast iudged these things.
Revelation 16:6	For they shed the blood of the Saints, and Prophets, and therefore hast thou giuen them blood to drinke: for they are worthy.
Revelation 16:7	And I heard another out of the Sanctuarie say, Euen so, Lord God almightie, true and righteous are thy iudgements.
Revelation 16:8	And the fourth Angel powred out his viall on the sunne, and it was giuen vnto him to torment men with heate of fire,
Revelation 16:9	And men boyled in great heate, and blasphemed the Name of God, which hath power ouer these plagues, and they repented not, to giue him glorie.
Revelation 16:10	And the fifth Angel powred out his viall vpon the throne of the beast, and his kingdome waxed darke, and they gnawed their tongues for sorowe,
Revelation 16:11	And blasphemed the God of heauen for their paines, and for their sores, and repented not of their workes.
Revelation 16:12	And the sixth Angel powred out his viall vpon the great riuer Euphrates, and the water thereof dried vp, that the way of the Kings of the East should be prepared.
Revelation 16:13	And I sawe three vncleane spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of that dragon, and out of the mouth of that beast, and out of the mouth of that false prophet.
Revelation 16:14	For they are the spirits of deuils, working miracles, to go vnto the Kings of the earth, and of the whole world, to gather them to the battell of that great day of God Almightie.
Revelation 16:15	(Beholde, I come as a theefe. Blessed is he that watcheth and keepeth his garments, least hee walke naked, and men see his filthines)
Revelation 16:16	And they gathered them together into a place called in Hebrewe Arma-gedon.
Revelation 16:17	And the seuenth Angel powred out his viall into the ayre: and there came a loude voyce out of the Temple of heauen from the throne, saying, It is done.
Revelation 16:18	And there were voyces, and thundrings, and lightnings, and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were vpon the earth, euen so mightie an earthquake.
Revelation 16:19	And the great citie was deuided into three partes, and the cities of the nations fell: and that great Babylon came in remembrance before God, to giue vnto her the cup of the wine of the fiercenesse of his wrath.
Revelation 16:20	And euery yle fled away, and the mountaines were not found.
Revelation 16:21	And there fell a great haile, like talents, out of heauen vpon the men, and men blasphemed God, because of the plague of the haile: for the plague thereof was exceeding great.
Revelation 17:1	Then there came one of the seuen Angels, which had the seuen vials, and talked with me, saying vnto me, Come: I will shewe thee the damnation of the great whore that sitteth vpon many waters,
Revelation 17:2	With whom haue committed fornication the Kings of the earth, and the inhabitants of the earth are drunken with the wine of her fornication.
Revelation 17:3	So he caried me away into the wildernesse in the Spirit, and I sawe a woman sit vpon a skarlet coloured beast, full of names of blasphemie, which had seuen heads, and tenne hornes.
Revelation 17:4	And the woman was arayed in purple and skarlet, and gilded with golde, and precious stones, and pearles, and had a cup of gold in her hand, full of abominations, and filthines of her fornication.
Revelation 17:5	And in her forehead was a name written, A mysterie, that great Babylon, that mother of whoredomes, and abominations of the earth.
Revelation 17:6	And I sawe ye woman drunken with the blood of Saintes, and with the blood of the Martyrs of IESVS: and when I sawe her, I wondred with great marueile.
Revelation 17:7	Then the Angel saide vnto me, Wherefore marueilest thou? I will shewe thee the misterie of that woman, and of that beast, that beareth her, which hath seuen heads, and tenne hornes.
Revelation 17:8	The beast that thou hast seene, was, and is not, and shall ascend out of the bottomles pit, and shall goe into perdition, and they that dwell on the earth, shall wonder (whose names are not written in the booke of life from the foundation of ye world) when they behold the beast that was, and is not, and yet is.
Revelation 17:9	Here is the mind that hath wisdome. The seuen heads, are seuen mountaines, whereon the woman sitteth: they are also seuen Kings.
Revelation 17:10	Fiue are fallen, and one is, and another is not yet come: and when he commeth, he must continue a short space.
Revelation 17:11	And the beast that was, and is not, is euen the eight, and is one of the seuen, and shall goe into destruction.
Revelation 17:12	And the tenne hornes which thou sawest, are tenne Kings, which yet haue not receiued a kingdome, but shall receiue power, as Kings at one houre with the beast.
Revelation 17:13	These haue one minde, and shall giue their power, and authoritie vnto the beast.
Revelation 17:14	These shall fight with the Lambe, and the Lambe shall ouercome them: for he is Lord of Lordes, and King of Kings: and they that are on his side, called, and chosen, and faithfull.
Revelation 17:15	And he said vnto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the whore sitteth, are people, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.
Revelation 17:16	And the tenne hornes which thou sawest vpon the beast, are they that shall hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eate her flesh, and burne her with fire.
Revelation 17:17	For God hath put in their heartes to fulfill his will, and to doe with one consent for to giue their kingdome vnto the beast, vntill the wordes of God be fulfilled.
Revelation 17:18	And that woman which thou sawest, is that great citie, which reigneth ouer the kings of ye earth.
Revelation 18:1	And after these thinges, I sawe another Angel come downe from heauen, hauing great power, so that the earth was lightened with his glorie,
Revelation 18:2	And he cryed out mightily with a loud voyce, saying, It is fallen, it is fallen, Babylon that great citie, and is become the habitation of deuils, and the holde of all foule spirits, and a cage of euery vncleane and hatefull birde.
Revelation 18:3	For all nations haue drunken of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the Kings of the earth haue committed fornication with her, and the marchants of the earth are waxed rich of the abundance of her pleasures.
Revelation 18:4	And I heard another voyce from heauen say, Goe out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sinnes, and that ye receiue not of her plagues.
Revelation 18:5	For her sinnes are come vp into heauen, and God hath remembred her iniquities.
Revelation 18:6	Rewarde her, euen as she hath rewarded you, and giue her double according to her workes: and in the cup that she hath filled to you, fill her ye double.
Revelation 18:7	In as much as she glorified her selfe, and liued in pleasure, so much giue ye to her torment and sorow: for she saith in her heart, I sit being a queene, and am no widowe, and shall see no mourning.
Revelation 18:8	Therefore shall her plagues come at one day, death, and sorowe, and famine, and she shalbe burnt with fire: for that God which condemneth her, is a strong Lord.
Revelation 18:9	And the kings of the earth shall bewayle her, and lament for her, which haue committed fornication, and liued in pleasure with her, when they shall see that smoke of that her burning,
Revelation 18:10	And shall stand a farre off for feare of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, that great citie Babylon, that mightie citie: for in one houre is thy iudgement come.
Revelation 18:11	And the marchants of the earth shall weepe and wayle ouer her: for no man byeth their ware any more.
Revelation 18:12	The ware of golde, and siluer, and of precious stone, and of pearles, and of fine linnen, and of purple, and of silke, and of skarlet, and of all maner of Thyne wood, and of all vessels of yuorie, and of all vessels of most precious wood, and of brasse, and of yron, and of marble,
Revelation 18:13	And of cinamon, and odours, and ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oyle, and fine floure, and wheate, and beastes, and sheepe, and horses, and charets, and seruants, and soules of men.
Revelation 18:14	(And the apples that thy soule lusted after, are departed from thee, and all things which were fatte and excellent, are departed from thee, and thou shalt finde them no more)
Revelation 18:15	The marchants of these thinges which were waxed riche, shall stand a farre off from her, for feare of her torment, weeping and wayling,
Revelation 18:16	And saying, Alas, alas, that great citie, that was clothed in fine linnen and purple, and skarlet, and gilded with gold, and precious stones, and pearles.
Revelation 18:17	For in one houre so great riches are come to desolation. And euery shipmaster, and all the people that occupie shippes, and shipmen, and whosoeuer traffike on the sea, shall stand a farre off,
Revelation 18:18	And crie, when they see that smoke of that her burning, saying, What citie was like vnto this great citie?
Revelation 18:19	And they shall cast dust on their heads, and crie, weeping, and wayling, and say, Alas, alas, that great citie, wherein were made rich all that had ships on the sea by her costlinesse: for in one houre she is made desolate.
Revelation 18:20	O heauen, reioyce of her, and ye holy Apostles and Prophets: for God hath punished her to be reuenged on her for your sakes.
Revelation 18:21	Then a mightie Angell tooke vp a stone like a great milstone, and cast it into the sea, saying, With such violence shall that great citie Babylon be cast, and shalbe found no more.
Revelation 18:22	And the voyce of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and trumpetters shalbe heard no more in thee, and no craftesman, of whatsoeuer craft he be, shall be found any more in thee: and the sound of a milstone shalbe heard no more in thee.
Revelation 18:23	And the light of a candle shall shine no more in thee: and the voyce of the bridegrome and of the bride shalbe heard no more in thee: for thy marchants were the great men of the earth: and with thine inchantments were deceiued all nations.
Revelation 18:24	And in her was found the blood of the Prophets, and of the Saints, and of all that were slaine vpon the earth.
Revelation 19:1	And after these things I heard a great voyce of a great multitude in heauen, saying, Hallelu-iah, saluation, and glorie, and honour, and power be to the Lord our God.
Revelation 19:2	For true and righteous are his iudgements: for he hath condemned that great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath auenged the blood of his seruants shed by her hand.
Revelation 19:3	And againe they saide, Hallelu-iah: and that her smoke rose vp for euermore.
Revelation 19:4	And the foure and twentie Elders, and the foure beastes fell downe, and worshipped God that sate on the throne, saying, Amen, Hallelu-iah.
Revelation 19:5	Then a voyce came out of the throne, saying, Prayse our God, all ye his seruants, and ye that feare him, both small and great.
Revelation 19:6	And I heard like a voyce of a great multitude, and as the voyce of many waters, and as the voyce of strong thundrings, saying, Hallelu-iah: for the Lord that God that almightie God hath reigned.
Revelation 19:7	Let vs be glad and reioyce, and giue glory to him: for the marriage of that Lambe is come, and his wife hath made her selfe ready.
Revelation 19:8	And to her was granted, that she should be arayed with pure fine linnen and shining, for the fine linnen is the righteousnesse of Saintes.
Revelation 19:9	Then he said vnto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called vnto the Lambes supper. And he said vnto me, These wordes of God are true.
Revelation 19:10	And I fell before his feete, to worship him: but he said vnto me, See thou doe it not: I am thy fellowe seruant, and one of thy brethren, which haue the testimonie of Iesus. Worship God: for the testimonie of Iesus is the Spirit of prophecie.
Revelation 19:11	And I sawe heauen open, and behold, a white horse, and he that sate vpon him, was called, Faithfull and true, and he iudgeth and fighteth righteously.
Revelation 19:12	And his eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crownes: and he had a name written, that no man knewe but himselfe.
Revelation 19:13	And he was clothed with a garment dipt in blood, and his name is called THE WORD OF GOD.
Revelation 19:14	And the hostes which werein heauen, followed him vpon white horses, clothed with fine linnen white and pure.
Revelation 19:15	And out of his mouth went out a sharpe sworde, that with it he should smite the heathen: for he shall rule them with a rod of yron: for he it is that treadeth the wine presse of the fiercenesse and wrath of almightie God.
Revelation 19:16	And he hath vpon his garment, and vpon his thigh a name written, THE KINGS OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.
Revelation 19:17	And I sawe an Angel stand in the sunne, who cryed with a loude voyce, saying to all the foules that did flie by the middes of heauen, Come, and gather your selues together vnto the supper of ye great God,
Revelation 19:18	That ye may eate the flesh of Kings, and the flesh of hie Captaines, and the flesh of mightie men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all freemen, and bondmen, and of small and great.
Revelation 19:19	And I sawe the beast, and the Kings of the earth, and their hostes gathered together to make battell against him that sate on the horse, and against his armie.
Revelation 19:20	But ye beast was taken, and with him that false prophet that wrought miracles before him, whereby he deceiued them that receiued ye beastes marke, and them that worshipped his image. These both were aliue cast into a lake of fire, burning with brimstone.
Revelation 19:21	And the remnant were slayne with the sword of him that sitteth vpon the horse, which commeth out of his mouth, and all the foules were filled full with their flesh.
Revelation 20:1	And I saw an Angel come downe from heauen, hauing the keye of the bottomles pit, and a great chaine in his hand.
Revelation 20:2	And he tooke the dragon that olde serpent, which is the deuill and Satan, and he bounde him a thousand yeeres:
Revelation 20:3	And cast him into the bottomles pit, and he shut him vp, and sealed the doore vpon him, that he should deceiue the people no more, till the thousand yeeres were fulfilled: for after that he must be loosed for a litle season.
Revelation 20:4	And I sawe seates: and they sate vpon them, and iudgement was giuen vnto them, and I saw the soules of them that were beheaded for the witnes of Iesus, and for the word of God, and which did not worship the beast, neither his image, neither had taken his marke vpon their foreheads, or on their handes: and they liued, and reigned with Christ a thousand yeere.
Revelation 20:5	But the rest of the dead men shall not liue againe, vntill the thousand yeres be finished: this is the first resurrection.
Revelation 20:6	Blessed and holy is hee, that hath part in the first resurrection: for on such the second death hath no power: but they shalbe the Priests of God and of Christ, and shall reigne with him a thousand yeere.
Revelation 20:7	And when the thousand yeres are expired, Satan shalbe loosed out of his prison,
Revelation 20:8	And shall go out to deceiue the people, which are in the foure quarters of the earth: euen Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battell, whose number is, as the sand of the sea.
Revelation 20:9	And they went vp into the plaine of the earth, and they compassed the tents of the Saints about, and the beloued citie: but fire came downe from God out of heauen, and deuoured them.
Revelation 20:10	And the deuill that deceiued them, was cast into a lake of fire and brimstone, where that beast and that false prophet are, and shall be tormented euen day and night for euermore.
Revelation 20:11	And I saw a great white throne, and one that sate on it, from whose face fled away both the earth and heauen, and their place was no more found.
Revelation 20:12	And I saw the dead, both great and small stand before God: and the bookes were opened, and another booke was opened, which is the booke of life, and the dead were iudged of those thinges, which were written in the bookes, according to their woorkes.
Revelation 20:13	And the sea gaue vp her dead, which were in her, and death and hell deliuered vp the dead, which were in them: and they were iudged euery man according to their woorkes.
Revelation 20:14	And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire: this is the second death.
Revelation 20:15	And whosoeuer was not found written in the booke of life, was cast into the lake of fire.
Revelation 21:1	And I sawe a newe heauen, and a newe earth: for the first heauen, and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea.
Revelation 21:2	And I Iohn sawe the holie citie newe Hierusalem come downe from God out of heauen, prepared as a bride trimmed for her husband.
Revelation 21:3	And I heard a great voice out of heauen, saying, Behold, the Tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them: and they shalbe his people, and God himselfe shalbe their God with them.
Revelation 21:4	And God shall wipe away all teares from their eyes: and there shalbe no more death, neither sorow, neither crying, neither shall there be any more paine: for the first things are passed.
Revelation 21:5	And he that sate vpon the throne, sayd, Behold, I make all things newe: and he sayde vnto me, Write: for these wordes are faithfull and true.
Revelation 21:6	And he said vnto me, It is done, I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ende. I wil giue to him that is a thirst, of the well of the water of life freely.
Revelation 21:7	He that ouercommeth, shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my sonne.
Revelation 21:8	But the fearful and vnbeleeuing, and the abominable and murtherers, and whoremogers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars shall haue their part in the lake, which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
Revelation 21:9	And there came vnto mee one of the seuen Angels, which had the seuen vials full of the seuen last plagues, and talked with mee, saying, Come: I will shewe thee the bride, the Lambes wife.
Revelation 21:10	And he caried me away in the spirit to a great: and an hie mountaine, and he shewed me that great citie, that holie Hierusalem, descending out of heauen from God,
Revelation 21:11	Hauing the glorie of God: and her shining was like vnto a stone most precious, as a Iasper stone cleare as crystall,
Revelation 21:12	And had a great wall and hie, and had twelue gates, and at the gates twelue Angels, and the names written, which are the twelue tribes of the children of Israel.
Revelation 21:13	On the East part there were three gates, and on the Northside three gates, on the Southside three gates, and on the Westside three gates.
Revelation 21:14	And the wall of the citie had twelue foundations, and in them the Names of the Lambes twelue Apostles.
Revelation 21:15	And hee that talked with mee, had a golden reede, to measure the citie withall, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.
Revelation 21:16	And the citie laie foure square, and the length is as large as the bredth of it, and he measured the citie with the reede, twelue thousande furlongs: and the length, and the bredth, and the height of it are equall.
Revelation 21:17	And hee measured the wall thereof, an hundreth fourtie and foure cubites, by the measure of man, that is, of the Angell.
Revelation 21:18	And ye building of the wall of it was of Iasper: and the citie was pure golde, like vnto cleare glasse.
Revelation 21:19	And the foundations of the wall of ye city were garnished with all maner of precious stones: the first foundation was Iasper: the second of Saphire: the third of a Chalcedonie: the fourth of an Emeraude:
Revelation 21:20	The fift of a Sardonix: the sixt of a Sardius: the seueth of a Chrysolite: the eight of a Beryl: the ninth of a Topaze: the tenth of a Chrysoprasus: the eleuenth of a Iacynth: the twelfth an Amethyst.
Revelation 21:21	And the twelue gates were twelue pearles, and euery gate is of one pearle, and the streete of the citie is pure golde, as shining glasse.
Revelation 21:22	And I sawe no Temple therein: for the Lord God almightie and the Lambe are the Temple of it.
Revelation 21:23	And this citie hath no neede of the sunne, neither of the moone to shine in it: for the glorie of God did light it: and the Lambe is the light of it.
Revelation 21:24	And the people which are saued, shall walke in the light of it: and the Kings of the earth shall bring their glorie and honour vnto it.
Revelation 21:25	And the gates of it shall not be shut by day: for there shalbe no night there.
Revelation 21:26	And the glorie, and honour of the Gentiles shall be brought vnto it.
Revelation 21:27	And there shall enter into it none vncleane thing, neither whatsoeuer woorketh abomination or lies: but they which are written in ye Lambes booke of life.
Revelation 22:1	And hee shewed me a pure riuer of water of life, cleare as crystall, proceeding out of the throne of God, and of the Lambe.
Revelation 22:2	In the middes of the street of it, and of either side of ye riuer, was the tree of life, which bare twelue maner of fruits, and gaue fruit euery moneth: and the leaues of the tree serued to heale the nations with.
Revelation 22:3	And there shalbe no more curse, but ye throne of God and of the Lambe shall be in it, and his seruants shall serue him.
Revelation 22:4	And they shall see his face, and his Name shalbe in their foreheads.
Revelation 22:5	And there shalbe no night there, and they neede no candle, neither light of the sunne: for the Lord God giueth them light, and they shall reigne for euermore.
Revelation 22:6	And he said vnto me, These wordes are faithfull and true: and the Lord God of the holy Prophets sent his Angell to shewe vnto his seruants the things which must shortly be fulfilled.
Revelation 22:7	Beholde, I come shortly. Blessed is hee that keepeth the woordes of the prophecie of this booke.
Revelation 22:8	And I am Iohn, which sawe and heard these thinges: and when I had heard and seene, I fell downe to worship before the feete of the Angell which shewed me these things.
Revelation 22:9	But he sayde vnto me, See thou doe it not: for I am thy fellowe seruaunt, and of thy brethren the Prophets, and of them which keepe the woordes of this booke: worship God.
Revelation 22:10	And he said vnto me, Seale not the wordes of the prophecie of this booke: for the time is at hand.
Revelation 22:11	He that is vniust, let him be vniust stil and he which is filthie, let him be filthie still: and hee that is righteous, let him be righteous stil: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.
Revelation 22:12	And beholde, I come shortly, and my reward is with mee, to giue euery man according as his worke shall be.
Revelation 22:13	I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last.
Revelation 22:14	Blessed are they, that doe his commandements, that their right may be in the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the Citie.
Revelation 22:15	For without shall be dogs and inchanters, and whoremongers, and murtherers, and idolaters, and whosoeuer loueth or maketh lies.
Revelation 22:16	I Iesus haue sent mine Angell, to testifie vnto you these things in the Churches: I am the root and the generation of Dauid, and the bright morning starre.
Revelation 22:17	And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth, say, Come: and let him that is a thirst, come: and let whosoeuer will, take of the water of life freely.
Revelation 22:18	For I protest vnto euery man that heareth the words of the prophecie of this booke, If any man shall adde vnto these things, God shall adde vnto him the plagues, that are written in this booke:
Revelation 22:19	And if any man shall diminish of the wordes of the booke of this prophecie, God shall take away his part out of the Booke of life, and out of the holie citie, and from those things which are written in this booke.
Revelation 22:20	He which testifieth these things, saith, Surely, I come quickly. Amen. Euen so, come Lord Iesus.
Revelation 22:21	The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with you all, AMEN.

===== BOOK: Romans =====
Romans 1:1	Paul a seruant of Iesus Christ called to be an Apostle, put apart to preache the Gospel of God,
Romans 1:2	(Which he had promised afore by his Prophetes in the holy Scriptures)
Romans 1:3	Concerning his Sonne Iesus Christ our Lord (which was made of the seede of Dauid according to the flesh,
Romans 1:4	And declared mightily to be the Sonne of God, touching the Spirit of sanctification by the resurrection from the dead)
Romans 1:5	By whom we haue receiued grace and Apostleship (that obedience might be giuen vnto ye faith) for his Name among al ye Gentiles,
Romans 1:6	Among whom ye be also the called of Iesus Christ:
Romans 1:7	To all you that be at Rome beloued of God, called to be Saints: Grace be with you, and peace from God our Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ.
Romans 1:8	First I thanke my God through Iesus Christ for you all, because your faith is published throughout the whole world.
Romans 1:9	For God is my witnesse (whom I serue in my spirit in the Gospel of his Sonne) that without ceasing I make mention of you
Romans 1:10	Alwayes in my prayers, beseeching that by some meanes, one time or other I might haue a prosperous iourney by the will of God, to come vnto you.
Romans 1:11	For I long to see you, that I might bestowe among you some spirituall gift, that you might be strengthened:
Romans 1:12	That is, that I might be comforted together with you, through our mutuall faith, both yours and mine.
Romans 1:13	Now my brethren, I would that ye should not be ignorant, how that I haue oftentimes purposed to come vnto you (but haue bene let hitherto) that I might haue some fruite also among you, as I haue among the other Gentiles.
Romans 1:14	I am detter both to the Grecians, and to the Barbarians, both to the wise men and vnto the vnwise.
Romans 1:15	Therefore, as much as in me is, I am readie to preach ye Gospel to you also that are at Rome.
Romans 1:16	For I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God vnto saluation to euery one that beleeueth, to the Iewe first, and also to the Grecian.
Romans 1:17	For by it the righteousnesse of God is reueiled from faith to faith: as it is written, The iust shall liue by faith.
Romans 1:18	For the wrath of God is reueiled from heauen against all vngodlinesse, and vnrighteousnesse of men, which withhold the trueth in vnrighteousnesse.
Romans 1:19	Forasmuch as that, which may be knowe of God, is manifest in them: for God hath shewed it vnto them.
Romans 1:20	For the inuisible things of him, that is, his eternal power and Godhead, are seene by ye creation of the worlde, being considered in his workes, to the intent that they should be without excuse:
Romans 1:21	Because that when they knewe God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankefull, but became vaine in their thoughtes, and their foolish heart was full of darkenesse.
Romans 1:22	When they professed themselues to be wise, they became fooles.
Romans 1:23	For they turned the glorie of the incorruptible God to the similitude of the image of a corruptible man, and of birdes, and foure footed beastes, and of creeping things.
Romans 1:24	Wherefore also God gaue them vp to their hearts lusts, vnto vncleannesse, to defile their owne bodies betweene themselues:
Romans 1:25	Which turned the trueth of God vnto a lie, and worshipped and serued the creature, forsaking the Creator, which is blessed for euer, Amen.
Romans 1:26	For this cause God gaue them vp vnto vile affections: for euen their women did change the naturall vse into that which is against nature.
Romans 1:27	And likewise also the men left the naturall vse of the woman, and burned in their lust one toward another, and man with man wrought filthinesse, and receiued in themselues such recompence of their errour, as was meete.
Romans 1:28	For as they regarded not to acknowledge God, euen so God deliuered them vp vnto a reprobate minde, to doe those things which are not conuenient,
Romans 1:29	Being full of all vnrighteousnesse, fornication, wickednes, couetousnes, maliciousnes, full of enuie, of murder, of debate, of deceit, taking all things in the euill part, whisperers,
Romans 1:30	Backbiters, haters of God, doers of wrong, proude, boasters, inuenters of euil things, disobedient to parents, without vnderstanding, couenant breakers, without naturall affection, such as can neuer be appeased, mercilesse.
Romans 1:31	Which men, though they knew ye Lawe of God, how that they which comit such things are worthie of death, yet not onely do the same, but also fauour them that doe them.
Romans 2:1	Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoeuer thou art that condemnest: for in that that thou condemnest another, thou condemnest thy selfe: for thou that condemnest, doest the same things.
Romans 2:2	But we know that the iudgement of God is according to trueth, against them which comit such things.
Romans 2:3	And thinkest thou this, O thou man, that condemnest them which doe such thinges, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the iudgement of God?
Romans 2:4	Or despisest thou the riches of his bountifulnesse, and patience, and long sufferance, not knowing that the bountifulnesse of God leadeth thee to repentance?
Romans 2:5	But thou, after thine hardnesse, and heart that canot repent, heapest vp as a treasure vnto thy selfe wrath against the day of wrath, and of the declaration of the iust iudgement of God,
Romans 2:6	Who wil reward euery man according to his woorkes:
Romans 2:7	That is, to them which through patience in well doing, seeke glorie, and honour, and immortalitie, euerlasting life:
Romans 2:8	But vnto them that are contentious and disobey the trueth, and obey vnrighteousnesse, shalbe indignation and wrath.
Romans 2:9	Tribulation and anguish shalbe vpon the soule of euery man that doeth euill: of the Iewe first, and also of the Grecian.
Romans 2:10	But to euery man that doeth good, shalbe glory, and honour, and peace: to the Iew first, and also to the Grecian.
Romans 2:11	For there is no respect of persons with God.
Romans 2:12	For as many as haue sinned without the Lawe, shall perish also without the Lawe: and as many as haue sinned in the Lawe, shall be iudged by the Lawe,
Romans 2:13	(For the hearers of the Lawe are not righteous before God: but the doers of the Lawe shalbe iustified.
Romans 2:14	For when the Gentiles which haue not the Lawe, doe by nature, the things conteined in the Lawe, they hauing not the Lawe, are a Lawe vnto themselues,
Romans 2:15	Which shew the effect of the Lawe written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witnes, and their thoughts accusing one another, or excusing,)
Romans 2:16	At the day when God shall iudge the secretes of men by Iesus Christ, according to my Gospel.
Romans 2:17	Beholde, thou art called a Iewe, and restest in the Lawe, and gloriest in God,
Romans 2:18	And knowest his will, and triest the things that dissent from it, in that thou art instructed by the Lawe:
Romans 2:19	And persuadest thy selfe that thou art a guide of the blinde, a light of them which are in darkenesse,
Romans 2:20	An instructer of them which lacke discretion, a teacher of the vnlearned, which hast the forme of knowledge, and of the truth in ye Law.
Romans 2:21	Thou therefore, which teachest another, teachest thou not thy selfe? thou that preachest, A man should not steale, doest thou steale?
Romans 2:22	Thou that saist, A man should not commit adulterie, doest thou commit adulterie? thou that abhorrest idoles, committest thou sacrilege?
Romans 2:23	Thou that gloriest in the Lawe, through breaking the Lawe, dishonourest thou God?
Romans 2:24	For ye Name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you, as it is written.
Romans 2:25	For circucision verely is profitable, if thou do the Lawe: but if thou be a transgressour of the Lawe, thy circumcision is made vncircumcision.
Romans 2:26	Therefore if the vncircumcision keepe the ordinances of the Lawe, shall not his vncircumcision be counted for circumcision?
Romans 2:27	And shall not vncircumcision which is by nature (if it keepe the Lawe) condemne thee which by the letter and circumcision art a transgressour of the Lawe?
Romans 2:28	For hee is not a Iewe, which is one outwarde: neither is that circumcision, which is outward in the flesh:
Romans 2:29	But he is a Iewe which is one within, and the circumcision is of the heart, in the spirite not in the letter, whose praise is not of men, but of God.
Romans 3:1	What is then the preferment of the Iewe? or what is the profite of circumcision?
Romans 3:2	Much euery maner of way: for chiefly, because vnto them were of credite committed the oracles of God.
Romans 3:3	For what, though some did not beleeue? shall their vnbeliefe make the faith of God without effect?
Romans 3:4	God forbid: yea, let God be true, and euery man a lyar, as it is written, That thou mightest be iustified in thy words, and ouercome, when thou art iudged.
Romans 3:5	Now if our vnrighteousnes comend the righteousnes of God, what shall we say? Is God vnrighteous which punisheth? (I speake as a man.)
Romans 3:6	God forbid: els how shall God iudge ye world?
Romans 3:7	For if the veritie of God hath more abounded through my lye vnto his glorie, why am I yet condemned as a sinner?
Romans 3:8	And (as we are blamed, and as some affirme, that we say) why doe we not euil, that good may come thereof? whose damnation is iust.
Romans 3:9	What then? are we more excellent? No, in no wise: for we haue alreadie prooued, that all, both Iewes and Gentiles are vnder sinne,
Romans 3:10	As it is written, There is none righteous, no not one.
Romans 3:11	There is none that vnderstandeth: there is none that seeketh God.
Romans 3:12	They haue all gone out of the way: they haue bene made altogether vnprofitable: there is none that doeth good, no not one.
Romans 3:13	Their throte is an open sepulchre: they haue vsed their tongues to deceit: the poyson of aspes is vnder their lippes.
Romans 3:14	Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitternesse.
Romans 3:15	Their feete are swift to shead blood.
Romans 3:16	Destruction and calamity are in their waies,
Romans 3:17	And ye way of peace they haue not knowen.
Romans 3:18	The feare of God is not before their eies.
Romans 3:19	Now we know that whatsoeuer ye Lawe saieth, it saieth it to them which are vnder ye Law, that euery mouth may bee stopped, and all the world be subiect to the iudgement of God.
Romans 3:20	Therefore by the woorkes of the Lawe shall no flesh be iustified in his sight: for by the Lawe commeth the knowledge of sinne.
Romans 3:21	But nowe is the righteousnesse, of God made manifest without the Lawe, hauing witnes of the Lawe and of the Prophets,
Romans 3:22	To wit, the righteousnesse of God by the faith of Iesus Christ, vnto all, and vpon all that beleeue.
Romans 3:23	For there is no difference: for all haue sinned, and are depriued of the glorie of God,
Romans 3:24	And are iustified freely by his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Iesus,
Romans 3:25	Whom God hath set forth to be a reconciliation through faith in his blood to declare his righteousnes, by the forgiuenesse of the sinnes that are passed,
Romans 3:26	Through the patience of God, to shewe at this time his righteousnesse, that hee might be iust, and a iustifier of him which is of the faith of Iesus.
Romans 3:27	Where is then the reioycing? It is excluded. By what Lawe? of woorkes? Nay: but by the Lawe of faith.
Romans 3:28	Therefore we conclude, that a man is iustified by faith, without the workes of the Lawe.
Romans 3:29	God, is he the God of the Iewes onely, and not of the Gentiles also? Yes, euen of the Gentiles also.
Romans 3:30	For it is one God, who shall iustifie circumcision of faith, and vncircumcision through faith.
Romans 3:31	Doe we then make the Lawe of none effect through faith? God forbid: yea, we establish the Lawe.
Romans 4:1	What shall we say then, that Abraham our father hath found concerning the flesh?
Romans 4:2	For if Abraham were iustified by workes, he hath wherein to reioyce, but not with God.
Romans 4:3	For what saith the Scripture? Abraham beleeued God, and it was counted to him for righteousnesse.
Romans 4:4	Nowe to him that worketh, the wages is not counted by fauour, but by dette:
Romans 4:5	But to him that worketh not, but beleeueth in him that iustifieth the vngodly, his faith is counted for righteousnesse.
Romans 4:6	Euen as Dauid declareth the blessednesse of the man, vnto whom God imputeth righteousnes without workes, saying,
Romans 4:7	Blessed are they, whose iniquities are forgiuen, and whose sinnes are couered.
Romans 4:8	Blessed is the man, to whom the Lord imputeth not sinne.
Romans 4:9	Came this blessednesse then vpon the circumcision onely, or vpon the vncircumcision also? For we say, that faith was imputed vnto Abraham for righteousnesse.
Romans 4:10	Howe was it then imputed? when he was circumcised, or vncircumcised? not when he was cricumcised, but when he was vncircumcised.
Romans 4:11	After, he receiued the signe of circumcision, as the seale of the righteousnesse of ye faith which he had, when he was vncircumcised, that he should be the father of all them that beleeue, not being circumcised, that righteousnesse might be imputed to them also,
Romans 4:12	And the father of circumcision, not vnto them onely which are of the circumcision, but vnto them also that walke in the steppes of the faith of our father Abraham, which he had when he was vncircumcised.
Romans 4:13	For the promise that he should be the heire of the worlde, was not giuen to Abraham, or to his seede, through the Lawe, but through the righteousnesse of faith.
Romans 4:14	For if they which are of the Lawe, be heires, faith is made voide, and the promise is made of none effect.
Romans 4:15	For the Lawe causeth wrath: for where no Lawe is, there is no transgression.
Romans 4:16	Therefore it is by faith, that it might come by grace, and the promise might be sure to all the seede, not to that onely which is of the Lawe: but also to that which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of vs all,
Romans 4:17	(As it is written, I haue made thee a father of many nations) euen before God whom he beleeued, who quickeneth the dead, and calleth those thinges which be not, as though they were.
Romans 4:18	Which Abraham aboue hope, beleeued vnder hope, that he should be the father of many nations: according to that which was spoken to him, So shall thy seede be.
Romans 4:19	And he not weake in the faith, considered not his owne bodie, which was nowe dead, being almost an hundreth yeere olde, neither the deadnes of Saraes wombe.
Romans 4:20	Neither did he doubt of the promise of God through vnbeliefe, but was strengthened in the faith, and gaue glorie to God,
Romans 4:21	Being fully assured that he which had promised, was also able to doe it.
Romans 4:22	And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousnesse.
Romans 4:23	Nowe it is not written for him onely, that it was imputed to him for righteousnesse,
Romans 4:24	But also for vs, to whom it shalbe imputed for righteousnesse, which beleeue in him that raised vp Iesus our Lord from the dead,
Romans 4:25	Who was deliuered to death for our sinnes, and is risen againe for our iustification.
Romans 5:1	Then being iustified by faith, we haue peace toward God through our Lord Iesus Christ.
Romans 5:2	By who also through faith, we haue had this accesse into this grace, wherein we stand, and reioyce vnder ye hope of the glory of God.
Romans 5:3	Neither that onely, but also we reioyce in tribulations, knowing that tribulation bringeth forth patience,
Romans 5:4	And patience experience, and experience hope,
Romans 5:5	And hope maketh not ashamed, because the loue of God is shed abroade in our heartes by the holy Ghost, which is giuen vnto vs.
Romans 5:6	For Christ, when we were yet of no strength, at his time died for the vngodly.
Romans 5:7	Doutles one will scarce die for a righteous man: but yet for a good man it may be that one dare die.
Romans 5:8	But God setteth out his loue towards vs, seeing that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for vs.
Romans 5:9	Much more then, being now iustified by his blood, we shalbe saued from wrath through him.
Romans 5:10	For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Sonne, much more being reconciled, we shalbe saued by his life,
Romans 5:11	And not onely so, but we also reioyce in God through our Lord Iesus Christ, by whom we haue nowe receiued the atonement.
Romans 5:12	Wherefore, as by one man sinne entred into ye world, and death by sinne, and so death went ouer all men: in who all men haue sinned.
Romans 5:13	For vnto the time of the Law was sinne in the worlde, but sinne is not imputed, while there is no lawe.
Romans 5:14	But death reigned from Adam to Moses, euen ouer them also that sinned not after the like maner of that transgression of Adam, which was the figure of him that was to come.
Romans 5:15	But yet the gift is not so, as is the offence: for if through the offence of that one, many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift by grace, which is by one man Iesus Christ, hath abounded vnto many.
Romans 5:16	Neither is the gift so, as that which entred in by one that sinned: for the fault came of one offence vnto condemnation: but the gift is of many offences to iustification.
Romans 5:17	For if by the offence of one, death reigned through one, much more shall they which receiue that abundance of grace, and of that gift of that righteousnesse, reigne in life through one, that is, Iesus Christ.
Romans 5:18	Likewise then as by the offence of one, the fault came on all men to condemnation, so by the iustifying of one, the benefite abounded toward all men to the iustification of life.
Romans 5:19	For as by one mans disobedience many were made sinners, so by that obedience of that one shall many also be made righteous.
Romans 5:20	Moreouer the Law entred thereupon that the offence shoulde abound: neuerthelesse, where sinne abounded, there grace abounded much more:
Romans 5:21	That as sinne had reigned vnto death, so might grace also reigne by righteousnesse vnto eternall life, through Iesus Christ our Lord.
Romans 6:1	What shall we say then? Shall we continue still in sinne, that grace may abounde? God forbid.
Romans 6:2	Howe shall we, that are dead to sinne, liue yet therein?
Romans 6:3	Knowe ye not, that all we which haue bene baptized into Iesus Christ, haue bene baptized into his death?
Romans 6:4	We are buried then with him by baptisme into his death, that like as Christ was raysed vp from the dead to the glorie of the Father, so we also should walke in newnesse of life.
Romans 6:5	For if we be planted with him to the similitude of his death, euen so shall we be to the similitude of his resurrection,
Romans 6:6	Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sinne might be destroied, that henceforth we should not serue sinne.
Romans 6:7	For he that is dead, is freed from sinne.
Romans 6:8	Wherefore, if we bee dead with Christ, we beleeue that we shall liue also with him,
Romans 6:9	Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead, dieth no more: death hath no more dominion ouer him.
Romans 6:10	For in that hee died, hee died once to sinne but in that he liueth, he liueth to God.
Romans 6:11	Likewise thinke ye also, that ye are dead to sin, but are aliue to God in Iesus Christ our Lord.
Romans 6:12	Let not sinne reigne therefore in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in ye lusts therof:
Romans 6:13	Neither giue ye your members, as weapons of vnrighteousnes vnto sinne: but giue your selues vnto God, as they that are aliue from the dead, and giue your members as weapons of righteousnesse vnto God.
Romans 6:14	For sinne shall not haue dominion ouer you: for ye are not vnder ye Lawe, but vnder grace.
Romans 6:15	What then? shall we sinne, because we are not vnder the Law, but vnder grace? God forbid.
Romans 6:16	Knowe ye not, that to whomsoeuer yee giue your selues as seruats to obey, his seruants ye are to whom ye obey, whether it be of sinne vnto death, or of obedience vnto righteousnesse?
Romans 6:17	But God be thanked, that ye haue beene the seruants of sinne, but yee haue obeyed from the heart vnto the forme of the doctrine, wherunto ye were deliuered.
Romans 6:18	Being then made free from sinne, yee are made the seruants of righteousnesse.
Romans 6:19	I speake after the maner of man, because of the infirmitie of your flesh: for as yee haue giuen your members seruants to vncleannes and to iniquitie, to commit iniquitie, so now giue your mebers seruants vnto righteousnesse in holinesse.
Romans 6:20	For when ye were the seruants of sinne, ye were freed from righteousnesse.
Romans 6:21	What fruit had ye then in those things, whereof ye are nowe ashamed? For the ende of those things is death.
Romans 6:22	But now being freed from sinne, and made seruants vnto God, ye haue your fruit in holines, and the end, euerlasting life.
Romans 6:23	For the wages of sinne is death: but the gift of God is eternall life, through Iesus Christ our Lord.
Romans 7:1	Knowe yee not, brethren, (for I speake to them that knowe the Lawe) that the Lawe hath dominion ouer a man as long as he liueth?
Romans 7:2	For the woman which is in subiection to a man, is bound by the Lawe to the man, while he liueth: but if the man bee dead, shee is deliuered from the lawe of the man.
Romans 7:3	So then, if while the man liueth, she taketh another man, she shalbe called an adulteresse: but if the man be dead, she is free from the Law, so that shee is not an adulteresse, though shee take another man.
Romans 7:4	So yee, my brethren, are dead also to the Law by ye body of Christ, that ye should be vnto an other, euen vnto him that is raised vp from the dead, that we should bring foorth fruite vnto God.
Romans 7:5	For when we were in ye flesh, the affections of sinnes, which were by the Law, had force in our members, to bring foorth fruit vnto death.
Romans 7:6	But now we are deliuered from the Lawe, he being dead in whom we were holden, that we should serue in newnesse of Spirite, and not in the oldnesse of the letter.
Romans 7:7	What shall we say then? Is the Lawe sinne? God forbid. Nay, I knewe not sinne, but by the Lawe: for I had not knowen lust, except the Lawe had sayd, Thou shalt not lust.
Romans 7:8	But sinne tooke an occasion by ye commandement, and wrought in me all maner of concupiscence: for without the Lawe sinne is dead.
Romans 7:9	For I once was aliue, without the Law: but when the commandement came, sinne reuiued,
Romans 7:10	But I died: and the same commandement which was ordeined vnto life, was found to be vnto me vnto death.
Romans 7:11	For sinne tooke occasion by the commandement, and deceiued me, and thereby slewe me.
Romans 7:12	Wherefore the Lawe is holy, and that commandement is holy, and iust, and good.
Romans 7:13	Was that then which is good, made death vnto me? God forbid: but sinne, that it might appeare sinne, wrought death in me by that which is good, that sinne might be out of measure sinfull by the commandement.
Romans 7:14	For we knowe that the Law is spirituall, but I am carnall, solde vnder sinne.
Romans 7:15	For I alow not that which I do: for what I would, that do I not: but what I hate, that do I.
Romans 7:16	If I doe then that which I woulde not, I consent to the Lawe, that it is good.
Romans 7:17	Nowe then, it is no more I, that doe it, but sinne that dwelleth in me.
Romans 7:18	For I know, that in me, that is, in my flesh, dwelleth no good thing: for to wil is preset with me: but I find no meanes to perform that which is good.
Romans 7:19	For I doe not the good thing, which I would, but the euil, which I would not, that do I.
Romans 7:20	Nowe if I do that I would not, it is no more I that doe it, but the sinne that dwelleth in me.
Romans 7:21	I finde then that when I would doe good, I am thus yoked, that euill is present with me.
Romans 7:22	For I delite in the Law of God, concerning the inner man:
Romans 7:23	But I see another Law in my members, rebelling against the Lawe of my minde, and leading me captiue vnto the lawe of sinne, which is in my members.
Romans 7:24	O wretched man that I am, who shall deliuer me from the body of this death!
Romans 7:25	I thanke God through Iesus Christ our Lord. Then I my selfe in my minde serue the Lawe of God, but in my flesh the lawe of sinne.
Romans 8:1	Now then there is no condemnation to them that are in Christ Iesus, which walke not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
Romans 8:2	For the Lawe of the Spirite of life, which is in Christ Iesus, hath freed mee from the lawe of sinne and of death.
Romans 8:3	For (that that was impossible to ye Lawe, in as much as it was weake, because of ye flesh) God sending his owne Sonne, in ye similitude of sinful flesh, and for sinne, condened sinne in the flesh,
Romans 8:4	That that righteousnes of the Law might be fulfilled in vs, which walke not after ye flesh, but after the Spirit.
Romans 8:5	For they that are after the flesh, sauour the things of the flesh: but they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit.
Romans 8:6	For the wisedome of the flesh is death: but the wisedome of the Spirit is life and peace,
Romans 8:7	Because the wisedome of the flesh is enimitie against God: for it is not subiect to the Lawe of God, neither in deede can be.
Romans 8:8	So then they that are in the flesh, can not please God.
Romans 8:9	Now ye are not in the flesh, but in ye Spirit, because ye spirit of God dwelleth in you: but if any man hath not ye Spirit of Christ, ye same is not his.
Romans 8:10	And if Christ bee in you, the body is dead, because of sinne: but the Spirite is life for righteousnesse sake.
Romans 8:11	But if the Spirit of him that raised vp Iesus from the dead, dwell in you, he that raised vp Christ from the dead, shall also quicken your mortall bodies, by his Spirit that dwelleth in you.
Romans 8:12	Therefore brethren, wee are detters not to the flesh, to liue after the flesh:
Romans 8:13	For if ye liue after the flesh, ye shall die: but if yee mortifie the deedes of the body by the Spirit, ye shall liue.
Romans 8:14	For as many as are ledde by the Spirit of God, they are the sonnes of God.
Romans 8:15	For ye haue not receiued the Spirit of bodage, to feare againe: but ye haue receiued the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry Abba, Father.
Romans 8:16	The same Spirit beareth witnesse with our spirit, that we are the children of God.
Romans 8:17	If we be children, we are also heires, euen the heires of God, and heires annexed with Christ: if so be that we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified with him.
Romans 8:18	For I count that the afflictions of this present time are not worthy of the glory, which shalbe shewed vnto vs.
Romans 8:19	For the feruent desire of the creature waiteth when the sonnes of God shalbe reueiled,
Romans 8:20	Because the creature is subiect to vanitie, not of it owne will, but by reason of him, which hath subdued it vnder hope,
Romans 8:21	Because the creature also shall be deliuered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious libertie of the sonnes of God.
Romans 8:22	For we knowe that euery creature groneth with vs also, and trauaileth in paine together vnto this present.
Romans 8:23	And not onely the creature, but we also which haue the first fruites of the Spirit, euen we doe sigh in our selues, waiting for the adoption, euen the redemption of our body.
Romans 8:24	For we are saued by hope: but hope that is seene, is not hope: for how can a man hope for that which he seeth?
Romans 8:25	But if we hope for that we see not, we doe with patience abide for it.
Romans 8:26	Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities: for we knowe not what to pray as wee ought: but the Spirit it selfe maketh request for vs with sighs, which cannot be expressed.
Romans 8:27	But he that searcheth the heartes, knoweth what is the meaning of the Spirit: for he maketh request for ye Saints, according to the wil of God.
Romans 8:28	Also we knowe that all thinges worke together for the best vnto them that loue God, euen to them that are called of his purpose.
Romans 8:29	For those which hee knewe before, he also predestinate to bee made like to the image of his Sonne, that hee might be the first borne among many brethren.
Romans 8:30	Moreouer whom he predestinate, them also he called, and whom he called, them also he iustified, and whom he iustified, them he also glorified.
Romans 8:31	What shall we then say to these thinges? If God be on our side, who can be against vs?
Romans 8:32	Who spared not his owne Sonne, but gaue him for vs all to death, how shall he not with him giue vs all things also?
Romans 8:33	Who shall lay any thing to the charge of Gods chosen? it is God that iustifieth,
Romans 8:34	Who shall condemne? it is Christ which is dead, yea, or rather, which is risen againe, who is also at the right hand of God, and maketh request also for vs.
Romans 8:35	Who shall separate vs from the loue of Christ? shall tribulation or anguish, or persecution, or famine, or nakednesse, or perill, or sworde?
Romans 8:36	As it is written, For thy sake are we killed all day long: we are counted as sheepe for the slaughter.
Romans 8:37	Neuerthelesse, in all these thinges we are more then coquerours through him that loued vs.
Romans 8:38	For I am perswaded that neither death, nor life, nor Angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,
Romans 8:39	Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shalbe able to separate vs from the loue of God, which is in Christ Iesus our Lord.
Romans 9:1	I say the trueth in Christ, I lye not, my conscience bearing mee witnes in the holy Ghost,
Romans 9:2	That I haue great heauinesse, and continuall sorow in mine heart.
Romans 9:3	For I woulde wish my selfe to be separate from Christ, for my brethren that are my kinsemen according to the flesh,
Romans 9:4	Which are the Israelites, to whome perteineth the adoption, and the glory, and the Couenants, and the giuing of the Lawe, and the seruice of God, and the promises.
Romans 9:5	Of whome are the fathers, and of whome concerning the flesh, Christ came, who is God ouer all, blessed for euer, Amen.
Romans 9:6	Notwithstanding it can not bee that the worde of God should take none effect: for all they are not Israel, which are of Israel:
Romans 9:7	Neither are they all children, because they are the seede of Abraham: but, In Isaac shall thy seede be called:
Romans 9:8	That is, they which are the children of the flesh, are not the children of God: but the children of the promise, are counted for the seede.
Romans 9:9	For this is a worde of promise, In this same time wil I come, and Sara shall haue a sonne.
Romans 9:10	Neither he onely felt this, but also Rebecca when shee had conceiued by one, euen by our father Isaac.
Romans 9:11	For yer the children were borne, and when they had neither done good, nor euill (that the purpose of God might remaine according to election, not by workes, but by him that calleth)
Romans 9:12	It was said vnto her, The elder shall serue the yonger.
Romans 9:13	As it is written, I haue loued Iacob, and haue hated Esau.
Romans 9:14	What shall wee say then? Is there vnrighteousnes with God? God forbid.
Romans 9:15	For he saith to Moses, I wil haue mercy on him, to whom I wil shew mercie: and wil haue compassion on him, on who I wil haue copassion.
Romans 9:16	So then it is not in him that willeth, nor in him that runneth, but in God that sheweth mercy.
Romans 9:17	For the Scripture saith vnto Pharao, For this same purpose haue I stirred thee vp, that I might shewe my power in thee, and that my Name might be declared throughout al the earth.
Romans 9:18	Therefore he hath mercie on whome he will, and whom he will, he hardeneth.
Romans 9:19	Thou wilt say then vnto me, Why doeth he yet complaine? for who hath resisted his will?
Romans 9:20	But, O man, who art thou which pleadest against God? shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why hast thou made me thus?
Romans 9:21	Hath not the potter power of the clay to make of the same lumpe one vessell to honour, and another vnto dishonour?
Romans 9:22	What and if God would, to shewe his wrath, and to make his power knowen, suffer with long patience the vessels of wrath, prepared to destruction?
Romans 9:23	And that hee might declare the riches of his glory vpon the vessels of mercy, which hee hath prepared vnto glory?
Romans 9:24	Euen vs whome hee hath called, not of of the Iewes onely, but also of the Gentiles,
Romans 9:25	As he sayth also in Osee, I will call them, My people, which were not my people: and her, Beloued, which was not beloued.
Romans 9:26	And it shalbe in the place where it was said vnto them, Ye are not my people, that there they shalbe called, The children of the liuing God.
Romans 9:27	Also Esaias cryeth concerning Israel, Though the number of the children of Israel were as the sand of the sea, yet shall but a remnant be saued.
Romans 9:28	For he wil make his account, and gather it into a short summe with righteousnes: for the Lord will make a short count in the earth.
Romans 9:29	And as Esaias sayde before, Except the Lord of hostes had left vs a seede, we had bene made as Sodom, and had bene like to Gomorrha.
Romans 9:30	What shall we say then? That the Gentiles which folowed not righteousnes, haue attained vnto righteousnes, euen the righteousnes which is of faith.
Romans 9:31	But Israel which followed the Lawe of righteousnes, could not arteine vnto the Law of righteousnes.
Romans 9:32	Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but as it were by the workes of the Lawe: for they haue stumbled at the stumbling stone,
Romans 9:33	As it is written, Beholde, I lay in Sion a stumbling stone, and a rocke to make men fall: and euery one that beleeueth in him, shall not be ashamed.
Romans 10:1	Brethren, mine hearts desire and prayer to God for Israel is, that they might be saued.
Romans 10:2	For I beare them record, that they haue the zeale of God, but not according to knowledge.
Romans 10:3	For they, being ignorant of the righteousnes of God, and going about to stablish their owne righteousnes, haue not submitted themselues to the righteousnes of God.
Romans 10:4	For Christ is the end of the Law for righteousnes vnto euery one that beleeueth.
Romans 10:5	For Moses thus describeth the righteousnes which is of the Lawe, That the man which doeth these things, shall liue thereby.
Romans 10:6	But the righteousnes which is of faith, speaketh on this wise, Say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heauen? (that is to bring Christ from aboue)
Romans 10:7	Or, Who shall descend into the deepe? (that is to bring Christ againe from the dead)
Romans 10:8	But what sayth it? The worde is neere thee, euen in thy mouth, and in thine heart. This is the worde of faith which we preach.
Romans 10:9	For if thou shalt confesse with thy mouth the Lord Iesus, and shalt beleeue in thine heart, that God raised him vp from the dead, thou shalt be saued:
Romans 10:10	For with the heart man beleeueth vnto righteousnes, and with the mouth man confesseth to saluation.
Romans 10:11	For the Scripture saith, Whosoeuer beleeueth in him, shall not be ashamed.
Romans 10:12	For there is no difference betweene the Iewe and the Grecian: for he that is Lord ouer all, is rich vnto all, that call on him.
Romans 10:13	For whosoeuer shall call vpon the Name of the Lord, shalbe saued.
Romans 10:14	But how shall they call on him, in whome they haue not beleeued? and how shall they beleeue in him, of whom they haue not heard? and howe shall they heare without a preacher?
Romans 10:15	And how shall they preach, except they be sent? as it is written, Howe beautifull are the feete of them which bring glad tidings of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things!
Romans 10:16	But they haue not all obeyed ye Gospel: for Esaias saith, Lord, who hath beleeued our report?
Romans 10:17	Then faith is by hearing, and hearing by the worde of God.
Romans 10:18	But I demaund, Haue they not heard? No doubt their sound went out through all the earth, and their wordes into the endes of the worlde.
Romans 10:19	But I demaund, Did not Israel knowe God? First Moses sayth, I will prouoke you to enuie by a nation that is not my nation, and by a foolish nation I will anger you.
Romans 10:20	And Esaias is bolde, and saith, I was found of them that sought me not, and haue bene made manifest to them that asked not after me.
Romans 10:21	And vnto Israel hee sayth, All the day long haue I stretched foorth mine hand vnto a disobedient, and gainesaying people.
Romans 11:1	I Demaund then, Hath God cast away his people? God forbid: for I also am an Israelite, of the seede of Abraham, of the tribe of Beniamin.
Romans 11:2	God hath not cast away his people which he knew before. Know ye not what the Scripture sayth of Elias, howe hee communeth with God against Israel, saying,
Romans 11:3	Lord, they haue killed thy Prophets, and digged downe thine altars: and I am left alone, and they seeke my life?
Romans 11:4	But what saith the answere of God to him? I haue reserued vnto my selfe seuen thousand men, which haue not bowed the knee to Baal.
Romans 11:5	Euen so then at this present time is there a remnant according to the election of grace.
Romans 11:6	And if it be of grace, it is no more of workes: or els were grace no more grace: but if it be of workes, it is no more grace: or els were worke no more worke.
Romans 11:7	What then? Israel hath not obtained that he sought: but the election hath obteined it, and the rest haue bene hardened,
Romans 11:8	According as it is written, God hath giuen them the spirit of slumber: eyes that they should not see, and eares that they should not heare vnto this day.
Romans 11:9	And Dauid sayth, Let their table be made a snare, and a net, and a stumbling blocke, euen for a recompence vnto them.
Romans 11:10	Let their eyes be darkened that they see not, and bowe downe their backe alwayes.
Romans 11:11	I demaund then, Haue they stumbled, that they should fall? God forbid: but through their fall, saluation commeth vnto the Gentiles, to prouoke them to follow them.
Romans 11:12	Wherefore if the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles, how much more shall their aboundance be?
Romans 11:13	For in that I speake to you Gentiles, in as much as I am the Apostle of ye Gentiles, I magnifie mine office,
Romans 11:14	To trie if by any meanes I might prouoke them of my flesh to follow them, and might saue some of them.
Romans 11:15	For if the casting away of them be the reconciling of the world, what shall the receiuing be, but life from the dead?
Romans 11:16	For if the first fruites be holy, so is the whole lumpe: and if the roote be holy, so are the branches.
Romans 11:17	And though some of the branches be broken off, and thou being a wilde Oliue tree, wast graft in for them, and made partaker of the roote, and fatnesse of the Oliue tree.
Romans 11:18	Boast not thy selfe against the branches: and if thou boast thy selfe, thou bearest not the roote, but the roote thee.
Romans 11:19	Thou wilt say then, The branches are broken off, that I might be graft in.
Romans 11:20	Well: through vnbeliefe they are broken off, and thou standest by faith: bee not hie minded, but feare.
Romans 11:21	For if God spared not the naturall branches, take heede, least he also spare not thee.
Romans 11:22	Beholde therefore the bountifulnesse, and seueritie of God: towarde them which haue fallen, seueritie: but toward thee, bountifulnesse, if thou continue in his bountifulnesse: or els thou shalt also be cut off.
Romans 11:23	And they also, if they abide not still in vnbeliefe, shall be graffed in: for God is able to graffe them in againe.
Romans 11:24	For if thou wast cut out of the Oliue tree, which was wilde by nature, and wast graffed contrary to nature in a right Oliue tree, how much more shall they that are by nature, bee graffed in their owne Oliue tree?
Romans 11:25	For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this secret (least ye should bee arrogant in your selues) that partly obstinacie is come to Israel, vntill the fulnesse of the Gentiles be come in.
Romans 11:26	And so all Israel shalbe saued, as it is written, The deliuerer shall come out of Sion, and shall turne away the vngodlinesse from Iacob.
Romans 11:27	And this is my couenant to them, When I shall take away their sinnes.
Romans 11:28	As concerning the Gospel, they are enemies for your sakes: but as touching the election, they are beloued for the fathers sakes.
Romans 11:29	For the giftes and calling of God are without repentance.
Romans 11:30	For euen as yee in times past haue not beleeued God, yet haue nowe obteined mercie through their vnbeliefe:
Romans 11:31	Euen so nowe haue they not beleeued by the mercie shewed vnto you, that they also may obtaine mercie.
Romans 11:32	For God hath shut vp all in vnbeliefe, that he might haue mercie on all.
Romans 11:33	O the deepenesse of the riches, both of the wisdome, and knowledge of God! howe vnsearcheable are his iudgements, and his wayes past finding out!
Romans 11:34	For who hath knowen the minde of the Lord? or who was his counsellour?
Romans 11:35	Or who hath giuen vnto him first, and he shalbe recompensed?
Romans 11:36	For of him, and through him, and for him are all things: to him be glory for euer. Amen.
Romans 12:1	I Beseech you therefore brethren, by the mercies of God, that yee giue vp your bodies a liuing sacrifice, holy, acceptable vnto God, which is your reasonable seruing of God.
Romans 12:2	And fashion not your selues like vnto this worlde, but bee yee changed by the renewing of your minde, that ye may prooue what that good, and acceptable and perfect will of God is.
Romans 12:3	For I say through the grace that is giuen vnto me, to euery one that is among you, that no man presume to vnderstande aboue that which is meete to vnderstand, but that he vnderstande according to sobrietie, as God hath dealt to euery man the measure of faith.
Romans 12:4	For as wee haue many members in one body, and all members haue not one office,
Romans 12:5	So we being many are one body in Christ, and euery one, one anothers members.
Romans 12:6	Seeing then that we haue gifts that are diuers, according to the grace that is giuen vnto vs, whether we haue prophecie, let vs prophecie according to the portion of faith:
Romans 12:7	Or an office, let vs waite on the office: or he that teacheth, on teaching:
Romans 12:8	Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that distributeth, let him doe it with simplicitie: he that ruleth, with diligence: he that sheweth mercie, with cheerefulnesse.
Romans 12:9	Let loue be without dissimulation. Abhorre that which is euill, and cleaue vnto that which is good.
Romans 12:10	Be affectioned to loue one another with brotherly loue. In giuing honour, goe one before another,
Romans 12:11	Not slouthfull to do seruice: seruent in spirit seruing the Lord,
Romans 12:12	Reioycing in hope, pacient in tribulation, continuing in prayer,
Romans 12:13	Distributing vnto the necessities of the Saintes: giuing your selues to hospitalitie.
Romans 12:14	Blesse them which persecute you: blesse, I say, and curse not.
Romans 12:15	Reioyce with them that reioyce, and weepe with them that weepe.
Romans 12:16	Be of like affection one towardes another: be not hie minded: but make your selues equall to them of the lower sort: be not wise in your selues.
Romans 12:17	Recompence to no man euill for euill: procure things honest in the sight of all men.
Romans 12:18	If it bee possible, as much as in you is, haue peace with all men.
Romans 12:19	Dearely beloued, auenge not your selues, but giue place vnto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is mine: I will repay, saith the Lord.
Romans 12:20	Therefore, if thine enemie hunger, feede him: if he thirst, giue him drinke: for in so doing, thou shalt heape coales of fire on his head.
Romans 12:21	Bee not ouercome of euill, but ouercome euill with goodnesse.
Romans 13:1	Let euery soule be subiect vnto the higher powers: for there is no power but of God: and the powers that be, are ordeined of God.
Romans 13:2	Whosoeuer therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God: and they that resist, shall receiue to themselues condemnation.
Romans 13:3	For Magistrates are not to be feared for good workes, but for euill. Wilt thou then bee without feare of the power? doe well: so shalt thou haue praise of the same.
Romans 13:4	For he is ye minister of God for thy wealth, but if thou do euill, feare: for he beareth not the sworde for nought: for he is the minister of God to take vengeance on him that doeth euill.
Romans 13:5	Wherefore ye must bee subiect, not because of wrath only, but also for conscience sake.
Romans 13:6	For, for this cause ye pay also tribute: for they are Gods ministers, applying themselues for the same thing.
Romans 13:7	Giue to all men therefore their duetie: tribute, to whome yee owe tribute: custome, to whom custome: feare, to whome feare: honour, to whom ye owe honour.
Romans 13:8	Owe nothing to any man, but to loue one another: for he that loueth another, hath fulfilled the Lawe.
Romans 13:9	For this, Thou shalt not commit adulterie, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not steale, Thou shalt not beare false witnes, Thou shalt not couet: and if there be any other commandement, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, euen in this, Thou shalt loue thy neighbour as thy selfe.
Romans 13:10	Loue doeth not euill to his neighbour: therefore is loue the fulfilling of the Lawe.
Romans 13:11	And that, considering the season, that it is now time that we should arise from sleepe: for now is our saluation neerer, then when we beleeued it.
Romans 13:12	The night is past, and the day is at hande, let vs therefore cast away the workes of darkenesse, and let vs put on the armour of light,
Romans 13:13	So that wee walke honestly, as in the day: not in gluttonie, and drunkennesse, neither in chambering and wantonnes, nor in strife and enuying.
Romans 13:14	But put yee on the Lord JESUS CHRIST, and take no thought for the flesh, to fulfill the lustes of it.
Romans 14:1	Him that is weake in the faith, receiue vnto you, but not for controuersies of disputations.
Romans 14:2	One beleeueth that he may eate of all things: and another, which is weake, eateth herbes.
Romans 14:3	Let not him that eateth, despise him that eateth not: and let not him which eateth not, condemne him that eateth: for God hath receiued him.
Romans 14:4	Who art thou that condemnest another mans seruant? hee standeth or falleth to his owne master: yea, he shalbe established: for God is able to make him stand.
Romans 14:5	This man esteemeth one day aboue another day, and another man counteth euery day alike: let euery man be fully perswaded in his minde.
Romans 14:6	He that obserueth the day, obserueth it to the Lord: and he that obserueth not the day, obserueth it not to the Lord. He that eateth, eateth to the Lord: for he giueth God thankes: and he that eateth not, eateth not to the Lord, and giueth God thankes.
Romans 14:7	For none of vs liueth to himselfe, neither doeth any die to himselfe.
Romans 14:8	For whether wee liue, we liue vnto the Lord: or whether we die, we die vnto the Lord: whether we liue therefore, or die, we are the Lords.
Romans 14:9	For Christ therefore died and rose againe, and reuiued, that he might be Lord both of the dead and the quicke.
Romans 14:10	But why doest thou condemne thy brother? or why doest thou despise thy brother? for we shall all appeare before the iudgement seate of Christ.
Romans 14:11	For it is written, I liue, sayth the Lord, and euery knee shall bowe to me, and all tongues shall confesse vnto God.
Romans 14:12	So then euery one of vs shall giue accounts of himselfe to God.
Romans 14:13	Let vs not therefore iudge one another any more: but vse your iudgement rather in this, that no man put an occasion to fall, or a stumbling blocke before his brother.
Romans 14:14	I know, and am perswaded through the Lord Iesus, that there is nothing vncleane of it selfe: but vnto him that iudgeth any thing to be vncleane, to him it is vncleane.
Romans 14:15	But if thy brother be grieued for the meate, nowe walkest thou not charitably: destroy not him with thy meate, for whome Christ dyed.
Romans 14:16	Cause not your commoditie to be euill spoken of.
Romans 14:17	For the kingdome of God, is not meate nor drinke, but righteousnes, and peace, and ioye in the holy Ghost.
Romans 14:18	For whosoeuer in these things serueth Christ, is acceptable vnto God, and is approoued of men.
Romans 14:19	Let vs then follow those things which concerne peace, and wherewith one may edifie another.
Romans 14:20	Destroy not the worke of God for meates sake: all things in deede are pure: but it is euill for the man which eateth with offence.
Romans 14:21	It is good neither to eate flesh, nor to drinke wine, nor any thing whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or made weake.
Romans 14:22	Hast thou faith? haue it with thy selfe before God: blessed is hee that condemneth not himselfe in that thing which he aloweth.
Romans 14:23	For he that doubteth, is condemned if he eate, because he eateth not of faith: and whatsoeuer is not of faith, is sinne.
Romans 15:1	We which are strong, ought to beare the infirmities of the weake, and not to please our selues.
Romans 15:2	Therefore let euery man please his neighbour in that that is good to edification.
Romans 15:3	For Christ also would not please himselfe, but as it is written, The rebukes of them which rebuke thee, fell on me.
Romans 15:4	For whatsoeuer things are written aforetime, are writte for our learning, that we through patience, and comfort of the Scriptures might haue hope.
Romans 15:5	Now the God of patience and consolation giue you that ye be like minded one towards another, according to Christ Iesus,
Romans 15:6	That ye with one minde, and with one mouth may prayse God, euen the Father of our Lord Iesus Christ.
Romans 15:7	Wherefore receiue ye one another, as Christ also receiued vs to the glory of God.
Romans 15:8	Nowe I say, that Iesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision, for the trueth of God, to confirme the promises made vnto the fathers.
Romans 15:9	And let the Gentiles prayse God, for his mercie, as it is written, For this cause I wil confesse thee among the Gentiles, and sing vnto thy Name.
Romans 15:10	And againe he saith, Reioyce, ye Gentiles with his people.
Romans 15:11	And againe, Prayse the Lord, all ye Gentiles, and laude ye him, all people together.
Romans 15:12	And againe Esaias sayth, There shall be a roote of Iesse, and hee that shall rise to reigne ouer the Gentiles, in him shall the Gentiles trust.
Romans 15:13	Nowe the God of hope fill you with all ioye, and peace in beleeuing, that ye may abound in hope, through the power of the holy Ghost.
Romans 15:14	And I my selfe also am perswaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodnes, and filled with all knowledge, and are able to admonish one another.
Romans 15:15	Neuerthelesse, brethren, I haue somewhat boldly after a sort written vnto you, as one that putteth you in remembrance, through the grace that is giuen me of God,
Romans 15:16	That I should be the minister of Iesus Christ toward the Gentiles, ministring the Gospel of God, that the offering vp of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by the holy Ghost.
Romans 15:17	I haue therefore whereof I may reioyce in Christ Iesus in those things which pertaine to God.
Romans 15:18	For I dare not speake of any thing, which Christ hath not wrought by me, to make the Gentiles obedient in worde and deede,
Romans 15:19	With the power of signes and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God: so that from Hierusalem, and round about vnto Illyricum, I haue caused to abound the Gospel of Christ.
Romans 15:20	Yea, so I enforced my selfe to preach the Gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should haue built on another mans foundation.
Romans 15:21	But as it is written, To whome hee was not spoken of, they shall see him, and they that heard not, shall vnderstand him.
Romans 15:22	Therefore also I haue bene oft let to come vnto you:
Romans 15:23	But nowe seeing I haue no more place in these quarters, and also haue bene desirous many yeeres agone to come vnto you,
Romans 15:24	When I shall take my iourney into Spaine, I will come to you: for I trust to see you in my iourney, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you, after that I haue bene somewhat filled with your company.
Romans 15:25	But now go I to Hierusalem, to minister vnto the Saints.
Romans 15:26	For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia, to make a certaine distribution vnto the poore Saints which are at Hierusalem.
Romans 15:27	For it hath pleased them, and their detters are they: for if the Gentiles be made partakers of their spirituall things, their duetie is also to minister vnto them in carnall things.
Romans 15:28	When I haue therefore performed this, and haue sealed them this fruite, I will passe by you into Spaine.
Romans 15:29	And I knowe when I come, that I shall come to you with abundance of the blessing of the Gospel of Christ.
Romans 15:30	Also brethren, I beseeche you for our Lord Iesus Christes sake, and for the loue of the spirit, that ye would striue with me by prayers to God for me,
Romans 15:31	That I may be deliuered from them which are disobedient in Iudea, and that my seruice which I haue to doe at Hierusalem, may be accepted of the Saintes,
Romans 15:32	That I may come vnto you with ioy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed.
Romans 15:33	Thus the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
Romans 16:1	I Commende vnto you Phebe our sister, which is a seruaunt of the Church of Cenchrea:
Romans 16:2	That ye receiue her in the Lord, as it becommeth Saintes, and that ye assist her in whatsoeuer businesse she needeth of your ayde: for she hath giuen hospitalitie vnto many, and to me also.
Romans 16:3	Greete Priscilla, and Aquila my fellowe helpers in Christ Iesus,
Romans 16:4	(Which haue for my life laide downe their owne necke. Vnto whom not I onely giue thankes, but also all the Churches of the Gentiles.)
Romans 16:5	Likewise greete the Church that is in their house. Salute my beloued Epenetus, which is the first fruites of Achaia in Christ.
Romans 16:6	Greete Marie which bestowed much labour on vs.
Romans 16:7	Salute Andronicus and Iunia my cousins and fellowe prisoners, which are notable among the Apostles, and were in Christ before me.
Romans 16:8	Greete Amplias my beloued in the Lord.
Romans 16:9	Salute Vrbanus our fellow helper in Christ, and Stachys my beloued.
Romans 16:10	Salute Apelles approoued in Christ. Salute them which are of Aristobulus friendes.
Romans 16:11	Salute Herodion my kinsman. Greete them which are of the friendes of Narcissus which are in the Lord.
Romans 16:12	Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, which women labour in the Lord. Salute the beloued Persis, which woman hath laboured much in the Lord.
Romans 16:13	Salute Rufus chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.
Romans 16:14	Greete Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Mercurius, and the brethren which are with them.
Romans 16:15	Salute Philologus and Iulias, Nereas, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the Saintes which are with them.
Romans 16:16	Salute one another with an holy kisse. The Churches of Christ salute you.
Romans 16:17	Now I beseech you brethren, marke them diligently which cause diuision and offences, contrary to the doctrine which ye haue learned, and auoide them.
Romans 16:18	For they that are such, serue not the Lord Iesus Christ, but their owne bellies, and with faire speach and flattering deceiue the heartes of the simple.
Romans 16:19	For your obedience is come abroade among all: I am glad therefore of you: but yet I woulde haue you wise vnto that which is good, and simple concerning euill.
Romans 16:20	The God of peace shall treade Satan vnder your feete shortly. The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with you.
Romans 16:21	Timotheus my helper, and Lucius, and Iason, and Sosipater my kinsemen, salute you.
Romans 16:22	I Tertius, which wrote out this Epistle, salute you in the Lord.
Romans 16:23	Gains mine hoste, and of the whole Church saluteth you. Erastus the steward of the citie saluteth you, and Quartus a brother.
Romans 16:24	The grace of our Lord Iesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
Romans 16:25	To him nowe that is of power to establish you according to my Gospel, and preaching of Iesus Christ, by the reuelation of the mysterie, which was kept secrete since the worlde began:
Romans 16:26	(But nowe is opened, and published among all nations by the Scriptures of the Prophetes, at the commandement of the euerlasting God for the obedience of faith)
Romans 16:27	To God, I say, only wise, be praise through Iesus Christ for euer. Amen. ‘Written to the Romans from Corinthus, and sent by Phebe, seruaunt of the Church which is at Cenchrea.’
