GENEVA 1599 PUBLIC DOMAIN CORPUS

===== BOOK: Ruth =====
Ruth 1:1	In the time that the Iudges ruled, there was a dearth in the lande, and a man of Beth-lehem Iudah went for to soiourne in the countrey of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sonnes.
Ruth 1:2	And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife, Naomi: and the names of his two sonnes, Mahlon, and Chilion, Ephrathites of Beth-lehem Iudah: and when they came into the land of Moab, they continued there.
Ruth 1:3	Then Elimelech the husband of Naomi died, and she remayned with her two sonnes,
Ruth 1:4	Which tooke them wiues of the Moabites: the ones name was Orpah, and the name of ye other Ruth: and they dwelled there about ten yeeres.
Ruth 1:5	And Mahlon and Chilion dyed also both twaine: so the woman was left destitute of her two sonnes, and of her husband.
Ruth 1:6	Then she arose with her daughters in law, and returned from the countrey of Moab: for she had heard say in the countrey of Moab, that the Lord had visited his people, and giuen them bread.
Ruth 1:7	Wherefore shee departed out of the place where she was, and her two daughters in law with her, and they went on their way to returne vnto the land of Iudah.
Ruth 1:8	Then Naomi saide vnto her two daughters in lawe, Goe, returne eche of you vnto her owne mothers house: the Lord shew fauour vnto you, as ye haue done with the dead, and with me.
Ruth 1:9	The Lord graunt you, that you may finde rest, either of you in the house of her husband. And when she kissed them, they lift vp their voice and wept.
Ruth 1:10	And they saide vnto her, Surely we will returne with thee vnto thy people.
Ruth 1:11	But Naomi saide, Turne againe, my daughters: for what cause will you go with me? are there any more sonnes in my wombe, that they may bee your husbands?
Ruth 1:12	Turne againe, my daughters: go your way: for I am too olde to haue an husband. If I should say, I haue hope, and if I had an husband this night: yea, if I had borne sonnes,
Ruth 1:13	Would yee tarie for them, till they were of age? would ye be deferred for them from taking of husbands? nay my daughters: for it grieueth me much for your sakes that the hand of the Lord is gone out against me.
Ruth 1:14	Then they lift vp their voyce and wept againe, and Orpah kissed her mother in lawe, but Ruth abode still with her.
Ruth 1:15	And Naomi said, Beholde, thy sister in law is gone backe vnto her people and vnto her gods: returne thou after thy sister in lawe.
Ruth 1:16	And Ruth answered, Intreate mee not to leaue thee, nor to depart from thee: for whither thou goest, I will goe: and where thou dwellest, I will dwell: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God.
Ruth 1:17	Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried. the Lord do so to me and more also, if ought but death depart thee and me.
Ruth 1:18	Whe she saw that she was stedfastly minded to go with her, she left speaking vnto her.
Ruth 1:19	So they went both vntill they came to Beth-lehem: and when they were come to Beth-lehem, it was noysed of them through all the citie, and they said, Is not this Naomi?
Ruth 1:20	And she answered them, Call me not Naomi, but call me Mara: for the Almightie hath giuen me much bitternes.
Ruth 1:21	I went out full, and the Lord hath caused me to returne emptie: why call ye me Naomi, seeing the Lord hath humbled me, and the Almightie hath brought me vnto aduersitie?
Ruth 1:22	So Naomi returned and Ruth the Moabitesse her daughter in law with her, when she came out of the countrey of Moab: and they came to Beth-lehem in the beginning of barly haruest.
Ruth 2:1	Then Naomis husband had a kinsman, one of great power of the familie of Elimelech, and his name was Boaz.
Ruth 2:2	And Ruth ye Moabitesse said vnto Naomi, I pray thee, Let mee goe to the fielde, and gather eares of corne after him, in whose sight I finde fauour. And she said vnto her, Goe my daughter.
Ruth 2:3	And she went, and came and gleaned in the fielde after the reapers, and it came to passe, that she met with the portion of the fielde of Boaz, who was of the familie of Elimelech.
Ruth 2:4	And behold, Boaz came from Beth-lehem, and saide vnto the reapers, The Lord be with you: and they answered him, The Lord blesse thee.
Ruth 2:5	Then saide Boaz vnto his seruant that was appointed ouer the reapers, Whose maide is this?
Ruth 2:6	And the seruant that was appointed ouer the reapers, answered, and said, It is the Moabitish maide, that came with Naomi out of the countrey of Moab:
Ruth 2:7	And shee saide vnto vs, I pray you, let mee gleane and gather after the reapers among the sheaues: so shee came, and hath continued from that time in the morning vnto now, saue that she taried a litle in the house.
Ruth 2:8	Then said Boaz vnto Ruth, Hearest thou, my daughter? goe to none other fielde to gather, neither goe from hence: but abide here by my maydens.
Ruth 2:9	Let thine eyes be on the field that they do reape, and goe thou after the maidens. Haue I not charged the seruants, that they touche thee not? Moreouer whe thou art a thirst, go vnto ye vessels, and drinke of that which ye seruants haue drawen.
Ruth 2:10	Then shee fell on her face, and bowed her selfe to the ground, and said vnto him, How haue I found fauour in thine eyes, that thou shouldest know me, seeing I am a stranger?
Ruth 2:11	And Boaz answered, and said vnto her, All is told and shewed me that thou hast done vnto thy mother in lawe, since the death of thine husband, and how thou hast left thy father and thy mother, and ye land where thou wast borne, and art come vnto a people which thou knewest not in time past.
Ruth 2:12	The Lord recompense thy worke, and a ful reward be giuen thee of the Lord God of Israel, vnder whose wings thou art come to trust.
Ruth 2:13	Then she saide, Let me finde fauour in thy sight, my lord: for thou hast comforted mee, and spoken comfortably vnto thy mayde, though I be not like to one of thy maydes.
Ruth 2:14	And Boaz said vnto her, At the meale time come thou hither, and eat of the bread, and dippe thy morsell in the vineger. And she sate beside the reapers, and hee reached her parched corne: and shee did eate, and was sufficed, and left thereof.
Ruth 2:15	And when she arose to gleane, Boaz commanded his seruants, saying, Let her gather among the sheaues, and doe not rebuke her.
Ruth 2:16	Also let fall some of the sheaues for her, and let it lie, that she may gather it vp, and rebuke her not.
Ruth 2:17	So she gleaned in the fielde vntill euening, and she thresshed that shee had gathered, and it was about an Ephah of barly.
Ruth 2:18	And she tooke it vp, and went into the citie, and her mother in law saw what she had gathered: Also she tooke foorth, and gaue to her that which she had reserued, when she was sufficed.
Ruth 2:19	Then her mother in lawe saide vnto her, Where hast thou gleaned to day? and where wroughtest thou? blessed be he, that knewe thee. And she shewed her mother in lawe, with whome she had wrought, and saide, The mans name, with whom I wrought to day, is Boaz.
Ruth 2:20	And Naomi said vnto her daughter in law, Blessed be he of the Lord: for he ceaseth not to doe good to the liuing and to the dead. Againe Naomi saide vnto her, The man is neere vnto vs, and of our affinitie.
Ruth 2:21	And Ruth the Moabitesse said, He said also certainely vnto mee, Thou shalt be with my seruants, vntill they haue ended all mine haruest.
Ruth 2:22	And Naomi answered vnto Ruth her daughter in lawe, It is best, my daughter, that thou goe out with his maides, that they meete thee not in an other fielde.
Ruth 2:23	Then she kept her by the maides of Boaz, to gather vnto the end of barly haruest, and of wheate haruest, and dwelt with her mother in lawe.
Ruth 3:1	Afterward Naomi her mother in lawe said vnto her, My daughter, shall not I seeke rest for thee, that thou mayest prosper?
Ruth 3:2	Now also is not Boaz our kinsman, with whose maides thou wast? beholde, he winoweth barly to night in the floore.
Ruth 3:3	Wash thy sellfe therefore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment vpon thee, and get thee downe to the floore: let not the man know of thee, vntill he haue left eating and drinking.
Ruth 3:4	And when he shall sleepe, marke the place where he layeth him downe, and go, and vncouer the place of his feete, and lay thee downe, and he shall tell thee what thou shalt doe.
Ruth 3:5	And she answered her, All that thou biddest me, I will doe.
Ruth 3:6	So she went downe vnto the floore, and did according to all that her mother in lawe bade her.
Ruth 3:7	And when Boaz had eaten, and drunken, and cheared his heart, he went to lie downe at the end of the heape of corne, and she came softly, and vncouered the place of his feet, and lay downe.
Ruth 3:8	And at midnight the man was afraide and caught holde: and loe, a woman lay at his feete.
Ruth 3:9	Then he sayd, Who art thou? And she answered, I am Ruth thine handmayd: spread therefore the wing of thy garment ouer thine handmayd: for thou art the kinsman.
Ruth 3:10	Then sayd he, Blessed be thou of the Lord, my daughter: thou hast shewed more goodnes in the latter end, then at the beginning, in as much as thou followedst not yong men, were they poore or rich.
Ruth 3:11	And now, my daughter, feare not: I will doe to thee all that thou requirest: for all the citie of my people doeth knowe, that thou art a vertuous woman.
Ruth 3:12	And now, it is true that I am thy kinsman, howbeit there is a kinsman neerer then I.
Ruth 3:13	Tarie to night, and when morning is come, if he will doe the duetie of a kinsman vnto thee, well, let him doe the kinsmans duetie: but if he will not doe the kinsmans part, then wil I doe the duetie of a kinsman, as the Lord liueth: sleepe vntill the morning.
Ruth 3:14	And she lay at his feete vntill the morning: and she arose before one could know another: for he sayd, Let no man knowe, that a woman came into the floore.
Ruth 3:15	Also he sayd, Bring the sheete that thou hast vpon thee, and holde it. And when she helde it, he measured sixe measures of barly, and layde them on her, and she went into the citie.
Ruth 3:16	And when she came to her mother in law, she sayd, Who art thou, my daughter? And she tolde her all that the man had done to her,
Ruth 3:17	And said, These sixe measures of barly gaue he me: for he sayd to me, Thou shalt not come emptie vnto thy mother in lawe.
Ruth 3:18	Then sayd she, My daughter, sit still, vntill thou knowe how the thing will fall: for the man wil not be in rest, vntill he hath finished the matter this same day.
Ruth 4:1	Then went Boaz vp to the gate, and sate there, and beholde, the kinsman, of whome Boaz had spoken, came by: and he sayd, Ho, snch one, come, sit downe here. And he turned, and sate downe.
Ruth 4:2	Then he tooke ten men of the Elders of the citie, and sayd, Sit ye downe here. And they sate downe.
Ruth 4:3	And he said vnto ye kinsman, Naomi, that is come againe out of ye countrey of Moab, wil sell a parcel of land, which was our brother Elimelechs.
Ruth 4:4	And I thought to aduertise thee, saying, Buy it before the assistants, and before the Elders of my people. If thou wilt redeeme it, redeeme it: but if thou wilt not redeeme it, tel me: for I know that there is none besides thee to redeeme it, and I am after thee. Then he answered, I wil redeeme it.
Ruth 4:5	Then said Boaz, What day thou buyest the field of the hand of Naomi, thou mnst also buy it of Ruth the Moabitesse the wife of the dead, to stirre vp the name of the dead, vpon his inheritance.
Ruth 4:6	And the kinsman answered, I can not redeeme it, lest I destroy mine owne inheritance: redeeme my right to thee, for I can not redeeme it.
Ruth 4:7	Now this was the maner beforetime in Israel, concerning redeeming and changing, for to stablish all things: a man did plucke off his shooe, and gaue it his neighbour, and this was a sure witnes in Israel.
Ruth 4:8	Therefore the kinsman sayd to Boas, Buy it for thee: and he drew off his shooe.
Ruth 4:9	And Boaz sayd vnto the Elders and vnto all the people, Ye are witnesses this day, that I haue bought all that was Elimelechs, and all that was Chilions and Mahlons, of the hand of Naomi.
Ruth 4:10	And moreouer, Ruth the Moabitesse the wife of Mahlon, haue I bought to be my wife, to stirre vp the name of the dead vpon his inheritance, and that the name of the dead be not put out from among his brethren, and from the gate of his place: ye are witnesses this day.
Ruth 4:11	And all the people that were in the gate, and the Elders sayd, We are witnesses: the Lord make the wife that commeth into thine house, like Rahel and like Leah, which twaine did build the house of Israel: and that thou mayest doe worthily in Ephrathah, and be famous in Beth-lehem,
Ruth 4:12	And that thine house be like the house of Pharez (whom Thamar bare vnto Iudah) of the seede which the Lord shall giue thee of this yong woman.
Ruth 4:13	So Boaz tooke Ruth, and she was his wife: and when he went in vnto her, the Lord gaue that she conceiued, and bare a sonne.
Ruth 4:14	And the women sayd vnto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord, which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman, and his name shalbe continued in Israel.
Ruth 4:15	And this shall bring thy life againe, and cherish thine olde age: for thy daughter in lawe which loueth thee, hath borne vnto him, and she is better to thee then seuen sonnes.
Ruth 4:16	And Naomi tooke the childe, and layde it in her lap, and became nource vnto it.
Ruth 4:17	And the women her neighbours gaue it a name, saying, There is a childe borne to Naomi, and called the name thereof Obed: the same was the father of Ishai, the father of Dauid.
Ruth 4:18	These now are ye generations of Pharez: Pharez begate Hezron,
Ruth 4:19	And Hezron begate Ram, and Ram begate Amminadab,
Ruth 4:20	And Amminadab begate Nahshon, and Nahshon begate Salmah,
Ruth 4:21	And Salmon begate Boaz, and Boaz begat Obed,
Ruth 4:22	And Obed begate Ishai, and Ishai begate Dauid.

===== BOOK: Song of Solomon =====
Song of Solomon 1:1	Let him kisse me with the kisses of his mouth: for thy loue is better then wine.
Song of Solomon 1:2	Because of the sauour of thy good ointments thy name is as an ointment powred out: therefore the virgins loue thee.
Song of Solomon 1:3	Drawe me: we will runne after thee: the King hath brought me into his chabers: we will reioyce and be glad in thee: we will remember thy loue more then wine: the righteous do loue thee.
Song of Solomon 1:4	I am blacke, O daughters of Ierusalem, but comely, as the tentes of Kedar, and as the curtaines of Salomon.
Song of Solomon 1:5	Regard ye me not because I am blacke: for the sunne hath looked vpon mee. The sonnes of my mother were angry against mee: they made me the keeper of ye vines: but I kept not mine owne vine.
Song of Solomon 1:6	Shewe me, O thou, whome my soule loueth, where thou feedest, where thou liest at noone: for why should I be as she that turneth aside to the flockes of thy companions?
Song of Solomon 1:7	If thou knowe not, O thou the fairest among women, get thee foorth by the steps of the flocke, and feede thy kiddes by the tents of the shepheards.
Song of Solomon 1:8	I haue compared thee, O my loue, to the troupe of horses in the charets of Pharaoh.
Song of Solomon 1:9	Thy cheekes are comely with rowes of stones, and thy necke with chaines.
Song of Solomon 1:10	We will make thee borders of golde with studdes of siluer.
Song of Solomon 1:11	Whiles the King was at his repast, my spikenard gaue the smelll thereof.
Song of Solomon 1:12	My welbeloued is as a bundle of myrrhe vnto me: he shall lie betweene my breasts.
Song of Solomon 1:13	My welbeloued is as a cluster of camphire vnto me in the vines of Engedi.
Song of Solomon 1:14	My loue, beholde, thou art faire: beholde, thou art faire: thine eyes are like the doues.
Song of Solomon 1:15	My welbeloued, beholde, thou art faire and pleasant: also our bed is greene:
Song of Solomon 1:16	The beames of our house are cedars, our rafters are of firre.
Song of Solomon 2:1	I am the rose of the fielde, and the lilie of the valleys.
Song of Solomon 2:2	Like a lilie amog the thornes, so is my loue among the daughters.
Song of Solomon 2:3	Like the apple tree among the trees of the forest, so is my welbeloued among the sonnes of men: vnder his shadow had I delite, and sate downe: and his fruite was sweete vnto my mouth.
Song of Solomon 2:4	Hee brought mee into the wine cellar, and loue was his banner ouer me.
Song of Solomon 2:5	Stay me with flagons, and comfort me with apples: for I am sicke of loue.
Song of Solomon 2:6	His left hande is vnder mine head, and his right hand doeth imbrace me.
Song of Solomon 2:7	I charge you, O daughters of Ierusalem, by the roes and by the hindes of the fielde, that ye stirre not vp, nor waken my loue, vntill she please.
Song of Solomon 2:8	It is the voyce of my welbeloued: beholde, hee commeth leaping by the mountaines, and skipping by the hilles.
Song of Solomon 2:9	My welbeloued is like a roe, or a yong hart: loe, he standeth behinde our wall, looking forth of the windowes, shewing him selfe through the grates.
Song of Solomon 2:10	My welbeloued spake and said vnto me, Arise, my loue, my faire one, and come thy way.
Song of Solomon 2:11	For beholde, winter is past: the raine is changed, and is gone away.
Song of Solomon 2:12	The flowers appeare in the earth: the time of the singing of birdes is come, and the voyce of the turtle is heard in our land.
Song of Solomon 2:13	The figtree hath brought foorth her yong figges: and the vines with their small grapes haue cast a sauour: arise my loue, my faire one, and come away.
Song of Solomon 2:14	My doue, that art in the holes of ye rocke, in the secret places of the staires, shewe mee thy sight, let mee heare thy voyce: for thy voyce is sweete, and thy sight comely.
Song of Solomon 2:15	Take vs the foxes, the little foxes, which destroy the vines: for our vines haue small grapes.
Song of Solomon 2:16	My welbeloued is mine, and I am his: hee feedeth among the lilies,
Song of Solomon 2:17	Vntil the day breake, and the shadowes flee away: returne, my welbeloued, and be like a roe, or a yong hart vpon the mountaines of Bether.
Song of Solomon 3:1	In my bed by night I sought him that my soule loued: I sought him, but I found him not.
Song of Solomon 3:2	I will rise therefore nowe, and goe about in the citie, by the streetes and by the open places, and wil seeke him that my soule loueth: I sought him, but I found him not.
Song of Solomon 3:3	The watchmen that went about the citie, found mee: to whome I said, Haue you seene him, whome my soule loueth?
Song of Solomon 3:4	When I had past a litle from them, then I found him whom my soule loued: I tooke holde on him and left him not, till I had brought him vnto my mothers house into the chamber of her that conceiued me.
Song of Solomon 3:5	I charge you, O daughters of Ierusalem, by the roes and by the hindes of the fielde, that ye stirre not vp, nor waken my loue vntill she please.
Song of Solomon 3:6	Who is shee that commeth vp out of the wildernes like pillars of smoke perfumed with myrrhe and incense, and with all the spices of the marchant?
Song of Solomon 3:7	Beholde his bed, which is Salomons: threescore strong men are round about it, of the valiant men of Israel.
Song of Solomon 3:8	They all handle the sworde, and are expert in warre, euery one hath his sword vpon his thigh for the feare by night.
Song of Solomon 3:9	King Salomon made himselfe a palace of the trees of Lebanon.
Song of Solomon 3:10	Hee made the pillars thereof of siluer, and the pauement thereof of gold, the hangings thereof of purple, whose middes was paued with the loue of the daughters of Ierusalem.
Song of Solomon 3:11	Come forth, ye daughters of Zion, and behold the King Salomon with the crowne, wherewith his mother crowned him in ye day of his mariage, and in the day of the gladnes of his heart.
Song of Solomon 4:1	Behold, thou art faire, my loue: behold, thou art faire: thine eyes are like the doues: among thy lockes thine heare is like the flocke of goates, which looke downe from the mountaine of Gilead.
Song of Solomon 4:2	Thy teeth are like a flocke of sheepe in good order, which go vp from the washing: which euery one bring out twinnes, and none is barren among them.
Song of Solomon 4:3	Thy lippes are like a threede of scarlet, and thy talke is comely: thy temples are within thy lockes as a piece of a pomegranate.
Song of Solomon 4:4	Thy necke is as the tower of Dauid builte for defence: a thousand shieldes hang therein, and all the targates of the strong men.
Song of Solomon 4:5	Thy two breastes are as two young roes that are twinnes, feeding among the lilies.
Song of Solomon 4:6	Vntill the day breake, and the shadowes flie away, I wil go into the mountaine of myrrhe and to the mountaine of incense.
Song of Solomon 4:7	Thou art all faire, my loue, and there is no spot in thee.
Song of Solomon 4:8	Come with me from Lebanon, my spouse, euen with me from Lebanon, and looke from the toppe of Amanah, from the toppe of Shenir and Hermon, from the dennes of the lyons, and from the mountaines of the leopards.
Song of Solomon 4:9	My sister, my spouse, thou hast wounded mine heart: thou hast wounded mine heart with one of thine eyes, and with a chaine of thy necke.
Song of Solomon 4:10	My sister, my spouse, how faire is thy loue? howe much better is thy loue then wine? and the sauour of thine oyntments then all spices?
Song of Solomon 4:11	Thy lippes, my spouse, droppe as honie combes: honie and milke are vnder thy tongue, and the sauoure of thy garments is as the sauoure of Lebanon.
Song of Solomon 4:12	My sister my spouse is as a garden inclosed, as a spring shut vp, and a fountaine sealed vp.
Song of Solomon 4:13	Thy plantes are as an orchard of pomegranates with sweete fruites, as camphire, spikenarde,
Song of Solomon 4:14	Euen spikenarde, and saffran, calamus, and cynamon with all the trees of incense, myrrhe and aloes, with all the chiefe spices.
Song of Solomon 4:15	O fountaine of the gardens, O well of liuing waters, and the springs of Lebanon.
Song of Solomon 4:16	Arise, O North, and come O South, and blowe on my garden that the spices thereof may flow out: let my welbeloued come to his garden, and eate his pleasant fruite.
Song of Solomon 5:1	I am come into my garden, my sister, my spouse: I gathered my myrrhe with my spice: I ate mine hony combe with mine hony, I dranke my wine with my milke: eate, O friends, drinke, and make you merie, O welbeloued.
Song of Solomon 5:2	I sleepe, but mine heart waketh, it is the voyce of my welbeloued that knocketh, saying, Open vnto mee, my sister, my loue, my doue, my vndefiled: for mine head is full of dewe, and my lockes with the droppes of the night.
Song of Solomon 5:3	I haue put off my coate, howe shall I put it on? I haue washed my feete, howe shall I defile them?
Song of Solomon 5:4	My welbeloued put in his hand by the hole of the doore, and mine heart was affectioned toward him.
Song of Solomon 5:5	I rose vp to open to my welbeloued, and mine hands did drop downe myrrhe, and my fingers pure myrrhe vpon the handels of the barre.
Song of Solomon 5:6	I opened to my welbeloued: but my welbeloued was gone, and past: mine heart was gone when hee did speake: I sought him, but I coulde not finde him: I called him, but hee answered mee not.
Song of Solomon 5:7	The watchmen that went about the citie, founde me: they smote me and wounded me: the watchmen of the walles tooke away my vaile from me.
Song of Solomon 5:8	I charge you, O daughters of Ierusalem, if you finde my welbeloued, that you tell him that I am sicke of loue.
Song of Solomon 5:9	O the fairest among women, what is thy welbeloued more then other welbeloued? what is thy welbeloued more then another louer, that thou doest so charge vs?
Song of Solomon 5:10	My welbeloued is white and ruddie, the chiefest of ten thousand.
Song of Solomon 5:11	His head is as fine golde, his lockes curled, and blacke as a rauen.
Song of Solomon 5:12	His eyes are like doues vpon the riuers of waters, which are washt with milke, and remaine by the full vessels.
Song of Solomon 5:13	His cheekes are as a bedde of spices, and as sweete flowres, and his lippes like lilies dropping downe pure myrrhe.
Song of Solomon 5:14	His hands as rings of gold set with the chrysolite, his belly like white yuorie couered with saphirs.
Song of Solomon 5:15	His legges are as pillars of marble, set vpon sockets of fine golde: his countenance as Lebanon, excellent as the cedars.
Song of Solomon 5:16	His mouth is as sweete thinges, and hee is wholy delectable: this is my welbeloued, and this is my louer, O daughters of Ierusalem.
Song of Solomon 5:17	O the fairest among women, whither is thy welbeloued gone? whither is thy welbeloued turned aside, that we may seeke him with thee?
Song of Solomon 6:1	My welbeloued is gone downe into his garden to the beds of spices, to feede in the gardens, and to gather lilies.
Song of Solomon 6:2	I am my welbeloueds, and my welbeloued is mine, who feedeth among the lilies.
Song of Solomon 6:3	Thou art beautifull, my loue, as Tirzah, comely as Ierusale, terrible as an army with baners.
Song of Solomon 6:4	Turne away thine eyes from me: for they ouercome mee: thine heare is like a flocke of goates, which looke downe from Gilead.
Song of Solomon 6:5	Thy teeth are like a flocke of sheepe, which goe vp from the washing, which euery one bring out twinnes, and none is barren among them.
Song of Solomon 6:6	Thy temples are within thy lockes as a piece of a pomegranate.
Song of Solomon 6:7	There are threescore Queenes and fourescore concubines and of the damsels without nober.
Song of Solomon 6:8	But my doue is alone, and my vndefiled, she is the onely daughter of her mother, and shee is deare to her that bare her: the daughters haue seene her and counted her blessed: euen the Queenes and the concubines, and they haue praised her.
Song of Solomon 6:9	Who is shee that looketh foorth as the morning, fayre as the moone, pure as the sunne, terrible as an armie with banners!
Song of Solomon 6:10	I went downe to the garden of nuttes, to see the fruites of the valley, to see if the vine budded, and if the pomegranates flourished.
Song of Solomon 6:11	I knewe nothing, my soule set me as the charets of my noble people.
Song of Solomon 6:12	Returne, returne, O Shulamite, returne: returne that we may behold thee. What shall you see in the Shulamite, but as the company of an armie?
Song of Solomon 7:1	Howe beautifull are thy goings with shooes, O princes daughter! the ioynts of thy thighs are like iewels: the worke of the hande of a cunning workeman.
Song of Solomon 7:2	Thy nauel is as a round cuppe that wanteth not licour: thy belly is as an heape of wheat compassed about with lilies.
Song of Solomon 7:3	Thy two breastes are as two young roes that are twinnes.
Song of Solomon 7:4	Thy necke is like a towre of yuorie: thine eyes are like the fishe pooles in Heshbon by the gate of Bath-rabbim: thy nose is as the towre of Lebanon, that looketh toward Damascus.
Song of Solomon 7:5	Thine head vpon thee is as skarlet, and the bush of thine head like purple: the King is tyed in the rafters.
Song of Solomon 7:6	Howe faire art thou, and howe pleasant art thou, O my loue, in pleasures!
Song of Solomon 7:7	This thy stature is like a palme tree, and thy brestes like clusters.
Song of Solomon 7:8	I saide, I will goe vp into the palme tree, I will take holde of her boughes: thy breastes shall nowe be like the clusters of the vine: and the sauour of thy nose like apples,
Song of Solomon 7:9	And the roufe of thy mouth like good wine, which goeth straight to my welbeloued, and causeth the lippes of the ancient to speake.
Song of Solomon 7:10	I am my welbeloueds, and his desire is toward mee.
Song of Solomon 7:11	Come, my welbeloued, let vs go foorth into the fielde: let vs remaine in the villages.
Song of Solomon 7:12	Let vs get vp early to the vines, let vs see if the vine florish, whether it hath budded the small grape, or whether the pomegranates florish: there will I giue thee my loue.
Song of Solomon 7:13	The mandrakes haue giuen a smelll, and in our gates are all sweete things, new and olde: my welbeloued, I haue kept them for thee.
Song of Solomon 8:1	Oh that thou werest as my brother that sucked the brestes of my mother: I would finde thee without, I would kisse thee, then they should not despise thee.
Song of Solomon 8:2	I will leade thee and bring thee into my mothers house: there thou shalt teache me: and I will cause thee to drinke spiced wine, and newe wine of the pomegranate.
Song of Solomon 8:3	His left hand shalbe vnder mine head, and his right hand shall embrace me.
Song of Solomon 8:4	I charge you, O daughters of Ierusale, that you stir not vp, nor waken my loue, vntil she please.
Song of Solomon 8:5	(Who is this that commeth vp out of the wildernesse, leaning vpon her welbeloued?) I raysed thee vp vnder an apple tree: there thy mother conceiued thee: there she coceiued that bare thee.
Song of Solomon 8:6	Set mee as a seale on thine heart, and as a signet vpon thine arme: for loue is strong as death: ielousie is cruel as the graue: the coles thereof are fierie coles, and a vehement flame.
Song of Solomon 8:7	Much water can not quench loue, neither can the floods drowne it: If a man should giue all the substance of his house for loue, they would greatly contemne it.
Song of Solomon 8:8	Wee haue a litle sister, and she hath no breastes: what shall we do for our sister when she shalbe spoken for?
Song of Solomon 8:9	If shee be a wall, we will builde vpon her a siluer palace: and if she be a doore, we wil keepe her in with bordes of cedar.
Song of Solomon 8:10	I am a wall, and my breasts are as towres: then was I in his eyes as one that findeth peace.
Song of Solomon 8:11	Salomon had a vine in Baal-hamon: hee gaue the vineyarde vnto keepers: euery one bringeth for ye fruite thereof a thousand pieces of siluer.
Song of Solomon 8:12	But my vineyarde which is mine, is before me: to thee, O Salomon appertaineth a thousand pieces of siluer, and two hundreth to them that keepe the fruite thereof.
Song of Solomon 8:13	O thou that dwellest in the gardens, the companions hearken vnto thy voyce: cause me to heare it.
Song of Solomon 8:14	O my welbeloued, flee away, and be like vnto the roe, or to the yong harte vpon ye mountaines of spices.

===== BOOK: Titus =====
Titus 1:1	Paul a seruaunt of God, and an Apostle of Iesus Christ, according to the faith of Gods elect, and the acknowledging of the trueth, which is according vnto godlines,
Titus 1:2	Vnto the hope of eternall life, which God that cannot lie, hath promised before the world began:
Titus 1:3	But hath made his worde manifest in due time through the preaching, which is committed vnto me, according to the commandement of God our Sauiour:
Titus 1:4	To Titus my naturall sonne according to the common faith, Grace, mercie and peace from God the Father, and from the Lord Iesus Christ our Sauiour.
Titus 1:5	For this cause left I thee in Creta, that thou shouldest continue to redresse the thinges that remaine, and shouldest ordeine Elders in euery citie, as I appointed thee,
Titus 1:6	If any be vnreproueable, the husband of one wife, hauing faithfull children, which are not slandered of riot, neither are disobedient.
Titus 1:7	For a Bishop must bee vnreproueable, as Gods steward, not froward, not angrie, not giuen to wine, no striker, not giuen to filthie lucre,
Titus 1:8	But harberous, one that loueth goodnesse, wise, righteous, holy, temperate,
Titus 1:9	Holding fast that faithfull worde according to doctrine, that he also may bee able to exhort with wholesome doctrine, and conuince them that say against it.
Titus 1:10	For there are many disobedient and vaine talkers and deceiuers of mindes, chiefly they of the Circumcision,
Titus 1:11	Whose mouthes must bee stopped, which subuert whole houses, teaching things, which they ought not, for filthie lucres sake.
Titus 1:12	One of themselues, euen one of their owne prophets said, The Cretians are alwaies liars, euill beastes, slowe bellies.
Titus 1:13	This witnesse is true: wherefore conuince them sharply, that they may be sound in ye faith,
Titus 1:14	And not taking heede to Iewish fables and commandements of men, that turne away from the trueth.
Titus 1:15	Vnto the pure are all things pure, but vnto them that are defiled, and vnbeleeuing, is nothing pure, but euen their mindes and consciences are defiled.
Titus 1:16	They professe that they know God, but by works they deny him, and are abominable and disobedient, and vnto euery good worke reprobate.
Titus 2:1	Bvt speake thou the thinges which become wholesome doctrine,
Titus 2:2	That the elder men be watchful, graue, teperate, sounde in the faith, in loue, and in patience:
Titus 2:3	The elder women likewise, that they be in such behauiour as becommeth holinesse, not false accusers, not subiect to much wine, but teachers of honest things,
Titus 2:4	That they may instruct the yong women to be sober minded, that they loue their husbands, that they loue their children,
Titus 2:5	That they be temperate, chaste, keeping at home, good and subiect vnto their husbands, that the word of God be not euill spoken of.
Titus 2:6	Exhort yong men likewise, that they bee sober minded.
Titus 2:7	In all things shewe thy selfe an ensample of good woorkes with vncorrupt doctrine, with grauitie, integritie,
Titus 2:8	And with the wholesome woorde, which can not be condemned, that hee which withstandeth, may be ashamed, hauing nothing concerning you to speake euill of.
Titus 2:9	Let seruants be subiect to their masters, and please them in al things, not answering again,
Titus 2:10	Neither pickers, but that they shew al good faithfulnesse, that they may adorne the doctrine of God our Sauiour in all things.
Titus 2:11	For that grace of God, that bringeth saluation vnto all men, hath appeared,
Titus 2:12	And teacheth vs that we should denie vngodlinesse and worldly lusts, and that we should liue soberly and righteously, and godly in this present world,
Titus 2:13	Looking for that blessed hope, and appearing of that glorie of that mightie God, and of our Sauiour Iesus Christ,
Titus 2:14	Who gaue him selfe for vs, that hee might redeeme vs from all iniquitie, and purge vs to bee a peculiar people vnto himselfe, zealous of good woorkes.
Titus 2:15	These things speake, and exhort, and conuince with all authoritie. See that no man despise thee.
Titus 3:1	Pvt them in remembrance that they bee subiect to the Principalities and powers, and that they bee obedient, and ready to euery good woorke,
Titus 3:2	That they speake euill of no man, that they be no fighters, but soft, shewing all meekenesse vnto all men.
Titus 3:3	For wee our selues also were in times past vnwise, disobedient, deceiued, seruing the lustes and diuers pleasures, liuing in maliciousnes and enuie, hatefull, and hating one another:
Titus 3:4	But when that bountifulnesse and that loue of God our Sauiour toward man appeared,
Titus 3:5	Not by the woorkes of righteousnesse, which we had done, but according to his mercie he saued vs, by the washing of the newe birth, and the renewing of the holy Ghost,
Titus 3:6	Which he shed on vs aboundantly, through Iesus Christ our Sauiour,
Titus 3:7	That we, being iustified by his grace, should be made heires according to the hope of eternall life.
Titus 3:8	This is a true saying, and these thinges I will thou shouldest affirme, that they which haue beleeued God, might be carefull to shewe foorth good woorkes. These things are good and profitable vnto men.
Titus 3:9	But stay foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and brawlings about the Lawe: for they are vnprofitable and vaine.
Titus 3:10	Reiect him that is an heretike, after once or twise admonition,
Titus 3:11	Knowing that hee that is such, is peruerted, and sinneth, being damned of his owne selfe.
Titus 3:12	When I shall send Artemas vnto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to come to mee vnto Nicopolis: for I haue determined there to winter.
Titus 3:13	Bring Zenas the expounder of the Lawe, and Apollos on their iourney diligently, that they lacke nothing.
Titus 3:14	And let ours also learne to shewe foorth good woorkes for necessary vses, that they be not vnfruitfull.
Titus 3:15	All that are with mee, salute thee. Greete them that loue vs in the faith. Grace bee with you all, Amen. ‘To Titus, elect the first bishoppe of the Church of the Cretians, written from Nicopolis in Macedonia.’

===== BOOK: Zechariah =====
Zechariah 1:1	In the eight moneth of the second yeere of Darius, came the worde of the Lord vnto Zechariah the sonne of Berechiah, the sonne of Iddo, the Prophet, saying,
Zechariah 1:2	The Lord hath bene sore displeased with your fathers.
Zechariah 1:3	Therefore say thou vnto them, Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Turne ye vnto me, saith the Lord of hostes, and I will turne vnto you, saith the Lord of hostes.
Zechariah 1:4	Be ye not as your fathers, vnto whome the former prophets haue cried, saying, Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Turne you nowe from your euill wayes, and from your wicked workes: but they would not heare, nor hearken vnto me, saith the Lord.
Zechariah 1:5	your fathers, where are they? and doe the Prophets liue for euer?
Zechariah 1:6	But did not my wordes and my statutes, which I commanded by my seruants ye Prophets, take holde of your fathers? and they returned, and sayd, As the Lord of hostes hath determined to doe vnto vs, according to our owne wayes, and according to our workes, so hath hee dealt with vs.
Zechariah 1:7	Vpon the foure and twentieth day of the eleuenth moneth, which is the moneth Shebat, in the second yeere of Darius, came the worde of the Lord vnto Zechariah the sonne of Berechiah, the sonne of Iddo the Prophet, saying,
Zechariah 1:8	I saw by night, and behold a man riding vpon a red horse, and hee stood among the mirre trees, that were in a bottome, and behinde him were there red horses speckeled and white.
Zechariah 1:9	Then sayd I, O my Lord, what are these? And the Angel that talked with me, sayde vnto me, I wil shew thee what these be.
Zechariah 1:10	And the man that stood among the mirre trees, answered, and sayd, These are they whome the Lord hath sent to go through the world.
Zechariah 1:11	And they answered the Angel of the Lord, that stood among the mirre trees, and sayd, We haue gone thorowe the world: and beholde, all the world sitteth still, and is at rest.
Zechariah 1:12	Then the Angel of the Lord answered and sayd, O Lord of hostes, howe long wilt thou be vnmercifull to Ierusalem, and to the cities of Iudah, with whom thou hast bene displeased now these threescore and ten yeeres?
Zechariah 1:13	And the Lord answered the Angel that talked with me, with good wordes and comfortable wordes.
Zechariah 1:14	So the Angel that communed with me, said vnto me, Crie thou, and speake, Thus saith the Lord of hostes, I am ielous ouer Ierusalem and Zion with a great zeale,
Zechariah 1:15	And am greatly angrie against the carelesse heathen: for I was angrie but a litle, and they helped forward the affliction.
Zechariah 1:16	Therefore thus saith the Lord, I wil returne vnto Ierusalem with tender mercie: mine house shall be builded in it, saith the Lord of hostes, and a line shall be stretched vpon Ierusalem.
Zechariah 1:17	Cry yet, and speake, Thus saith the Lord of hostes, My cities shall yet be broken with plentie: the Lord shall yet comfort Zion, and shall yet chuse Ierusalem.
Zechariah 1:18	Then lift I vp mine eyes and sawe, and beholde, foure hornes.
Zechariah 1:19	And I said vnto the Angel that talked with me, What be these? And hee answered me, These are the hornes which haue scattered Iudah, Israel, and Ierusalem.
Zechariah 1:20	And the Lord shewed me foure carpenters.
Zechariah 1:21	Then said I, What come these to doe? And he answered, and said, These are the hornes, which haue scattered Iudah, so that a man durst not lift vp his head: but these are come to fray them, and to cast out the hornes of the Gentiles, which lift vp their horne ouer the land of Iudah, to scatter it.
Zechariah 2:1	I lift vp mine eyes againe and looked, and behold, a man with a measuring line in his hand.
Zechariah 2:2	Then saide I, Whither goest thou? And he saide vnto me, To measure Ierusalem, that I may see what is the breadth thereof, and what is the length thereof.
Zechariah 2:3	And beholde, the Angel that talked with me, went foorth: and another Angel went out to meete him,
Zechariah 2:4	And saide vnto him, Runne, speake to this yong man, and say, Ierusalem shalbe inhabited without walles, for the multitude of men and cattell therein.
Zechariah 2:5	For I, saith the Lord, will be vnto her a wall of fire round about, and wil be the glory in the middes of her.
Zechariah 2:6	Ho, ho, come forth, and flee from the land of the North, saith the Lord: for I haue scattered you into the foure winds of the heauen, saith ye Lord.
Zechariah 2:7	Saue thy selfe, O Zion, that dwellest with the daughter of Babel.
Zechariah 2:8	For thus saith the Lord of hostes, After this glory hath hee sent me vnto the nations, which spoyled you: for he that toucheth you, toucheth the apple of his eye.
Zechariah 2:9	For beholde, I will lift vp mine hand vpon them: and they shalbe a spoyle to those that serued them, and ye shall knowe, that the Lord of hostes hath sent me.
Zechariah 2:10	Reioyce, and be glad, O daughter Zion: for loe, I come, and will dwell in the middes of thee, saith the Lord.
Zechariah 2:11	And many nations shall be ioyned to the Lord in that day, and shalbe my people: and I will dwell in the middes of thee, and thou shalt knowe that the Lord of hostes hath sent me vnto thee.
Zechariah 2:12	And the Lord shall inherite Iudah his portion in the holy lande, and shall chuse Ierusalem againe.
Zechariah 2:13	Let all flesh be still before the Lord: for he is raised vp out of his holy place.
Zechariah 3:1	And he shewed mee Iehoshua the hie Priest, standing before the Angel of the Lord, and Satan stoode at his right hand to resist him.
Zechariah 3:2	And the Lord said vnto Satan, The Lord reprooue thee, O Satan: euen the Lord that hath chosen Ierusalem, reprooue thee. Is not this a brand taken out of the fire?
Zechariah 3:3	Nowe Iehoshua was clothed with filthie garments, and stoode before the Angel.
Zechariah 3:4	And he answered and spake vnto those that stoode before him, saying, Take away the filthie garments from him. And vnto him hee saide, Behold, I haue caused thine iniquitie to depart from thee, and I wil clothe thee with change of raiment.
Zechariah 3:5	And I saide, Let them set a faire diademe vpon his head. So they set a faire diademe vpon his head, and clothed him with garments, and the Angel of the Lord stoode by.
Zechariah 3:6	And the Angel of the Lord testified vnto Iehoshua, saying,
Zechariah 3:7	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, If thou wilt walke in my wayes, and keepe my watch, thou shalt also iudge mine House, and shalt also keepe my courtes, and I will giue thee place among these that stand by.
Zechariah 3:8	Heare now, O Iehoshua the hie Priest, thou and thy fellowes that sit before thee: for they are monstruous persons: but behold, I wil bring forth the Branche my seruant.
Zechariah 3:9	For loe, the stone that I haue layd before Iehoshua: vpon one stone shalbe seuen eyes: beholde, I will cut out the grauing thereof, saith the Lord of hostes, and I will take away the iniquitie of this land in one day.
Zechariah 3:10	In that day, saith the Lord of hostes, shall ye call euery man his neighbour vnder the vine, and vnder the figge tree.
Zechariah 4:1	And the Angel that talked with mee, came againe and waked mee, as a man that is raysed out of his sleepe,
Zechariah 4:2	And saide vnto me, What seest thou? And I said, I haue looked, and beholde, a candlesticke all of gold with a bowle vpon the toppe of it, and his seuen lampes therein, and seuen pipes to the lampes, which were vpon the toppe thereof.
Zechariah 4:3	And two oliue trees ouer it, one vpon the right side of the bowle, and the other vpon the left side thereof.
Zechariah 4:4	So I answered, and spake to the Angel that talked with me, saying, What are these, my Lord?
Zechariah 4:5	Then the Angel that talked with mee, answered and said vnto me, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, No, my Lord.
Zechariah 4:6	Then he answered and spake vnto me, saying, This is the word of the Lord vnto Zerubbabel, saying, Neither by an armie nor strength, but by my Spirit, saith the Lord of hostes.
Zechariah 4:7	Who art thou, O great mountaine, before Zerubbabel? thou shalt be a plaine, and he shall bring foorth the head stone thereof, with shoutings, crying, Grace, grace vnto it.
Zechariah 4:8	Moreouer, the word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Zechariah 4:9	The handes of Zerubbabel haue layde the foundation of this house: his handes shall also finish it, and thou shalt knowe that the Lord of hostes hath sent me vnto you.
Zechariah 4:10	For who hath despised the day of the small thinges? but they shall reioyce, and shall see the stone of tinne in the hand of Zerubbabel: these seuen are the eyes of the Lord, which go thorow the whole world.
Zechariah 4:11	Then answered I, and said vnto him, What are these two oliue trees vpon the right and vpon the left side thereof?
Zechariah 4:12	And I spake moreouer, and said vnto him, What bee these two oliue branches, which thorowe the two golden pipes emptie themselues into the golde?
Zechariah 4:13	And hee answered me, and saide, Knowest thou not what these bee? And I sayde, No, my Lord.
Zechariah 4:14	Then said he, These are the two oliue branches, that stand with the ruler of the whole earth.
Zechariah 5:1	Then I turned me, and lifted vp mine eyes and looked, and beholde, a flying booke.
Zechariah 5:2	And he said vnto me, What seest thou? And I answered, I see a flying booke: the length thereof is twentie cubites, and the breadth thereof tenne cubites.
Zechariah 5:3	Then said he vnto me, This is the curse that goeth foorth ouer the whole earth: for euery one that stealeth, shalbe cut off aswell on this side, as on that: and euery one that sweareth, shall be cut off aswell on this side, as on that.
Zechariah 5:4	I will bring it forth, saith the Lord of hosts, and it shall enter into the house of the thiefe, and into the house of him, that falsely sweareth by my Name: and it shall remaine in the middes of his house, and shall consume it, with the timber thereof, and stones thereof.
Zechariah 5:5	Then the Angel that talked with me, went foorth, and said vnto me, Lift vp now thine eyes, and see what is this that goeth foorth.
Zechariah 5:6	And I saide, What is it? And hee sayde, This is an Ephah that goeth foorth. Hee saide moreouer, This is the sight of them through all the earth.
Zechariah 5:7	And beholde, there was lift vp a talent of lead: and this is a woman that sitteth in the middes of the Ephah.
Zechariah 5:8	And he said, This is wickednes, and he cast it into the middes of the Ephah, and hee cast the weight of lead vpon the mouth thereof.
Zechariah 5:9	Then lift I vp mine eyes, and looked: and beholde, there came out two women, and the winde was in their wings (for they had wings like the wings of a storke) and they lift vp the Ephah betweene the earth and the heauen.
Zechariah 5:10	Then saide I to the Angel that talked with me, Whither doe these beare the Ephah?
Zechariah 5:11	And hee saide vnto mee, To builde it an house in the lande of Shinar, and it shall be established and set there vpon her owne place.
Zechariah 6:1	Againe, I turned and lift vp mine eyes, and looked: and beholde, there came foure charets out from betweene two mountaines, and the mountaines were mountaines of brasse.
Zechariah 6:2	In the first charet were red horses, and in the second charet blacke horses,
Zechariah 6:3	And in the thirde charet white horses, and in the fourth charet, horses of diuers colours, and reddish.
Zechariah 6:4	Then I answered, and saide vnto the Angell that talked with mee, What are these, my Lord?
Zechariah 6:5	And the Angell answered, and sayde vnto mee, These are the foure spirites of the heauen, which goe foorth from standing with the Lord of all the earth.
Zechariah 6:6	That with the blacke horse went forth into the land of the North, and the white went out after them, and they of diuers colours went forth toward the South countrey.
Zechariah 6:7	And the reddish went out, and required to go, and passe through the world, and he sayde, Goe passe through the worlde. So they went thorowout the world.
Zechariah 6:8	Then cryed hee vpon me, and spake vnto me, saying, Beholde, these that goe towarde the North countrey, haue pacified my spirit in the North countrey.
Zechariah 6:9	And the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Zechariah 6:10	Take of them of ye captiuitie, euen of Heldai, and of Tobijah, and Iedaiah, which are come from Babel, and come thou the same day, and goe vnto the house of Ioshiah, the sonne of Zephaniah.
Zechariah 6:11	Take euen siluer, and golde, and make crownes, and set them vpon the head of Iehoshua, the sonne of Iehozadak the hie Priest,
Zechariah 6:12	And speake vnto him, saying, Thus speaketh the Lord of hostes, and sayth, Behold the man whose name is the Branch, and he shall growe vp out of his place, and he shall build the Temple of the Lord.
Zechariah 6:13	Euen hee shall build the Temple of the Lord, and he shall beare the glory, and shall sit and rule vpon his throne, and he shalbe a Priest vpon his throne, and the counsell of peace shall be betweene them both.
Zechariah 6:14	And the crownes shall be to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Iedaiah, and to Hen the sonne of Zephaniah, for a memoriall in the Temple of the Lord.
Zechariah 6:15	And they that are farre off, shall come and build in the Temple of the Lord, and ye shall know, that the Lord of hostes hath sent me vnto you. And this shall come to passe, if ye will obey the voyce of the Lord your God.
Zechariah 7:1	And in the fourth yeere of King Darius, the worde of the Lord came vnto Zechariah in the fourth day of the ninth moneth, euen in Chisleu,
Zechariah 7:2	For they had sent vnto the House of God Sharezer, and Regem-melech and their men to pray before the Lord,
Zechariah 7:3	And to speake vnto the Priests, which were in the House of the Lord of hostes, and to the Prophets, saying, Should I weepe in the fift moneth, and separate my selfe as I haue done these so many yeeres?
Zechariah 7:4	Then came the word of the Lord of hostes vnto me, saying,
Zechariah 7:5	Speake vnto all the people of the land, and to the Priests, and say, When ye fasted, and mourned in the fift and seuenth moneth, euen the seuentie yeeres, did ye fast vnto me? doe I approoue it?
Zechariah 7:6	And when ye did eate, and when ye did drinke, did ye not eate for your selues, and drinke for your selues?
Zechariah 7:7	Should ye not heare the wordes, which the Lord hath cryed by the ministerie of the former Prophets when Ierusalem was inhabited, and in prosperitie, and the cities thereof round about her, when the South and the plaine was inhabited?
Zechariah 7:8	And the worde of the Lord came vnto Zechariah, saying,
Zechariah 7:9	Thus speaketh the Lord of hostes, saying, Execute true iudgement, and shewe mercy and compassion, euery man to his brother,
Zechariah 7:10	And oppresse not the widowe, nor the fatherles, the stranger nor the poore, and let none of you imagine euil against his brother in your heart.
Zechariah 7:11	But they refused to hearken, and pulled away the shoulder, and stopped their eares, that they should not heare.
Zechariah 7:12	Yea, they made their hearts as an adamant stone, least they should heare the Lawe and the wordes which the Lord of hostes sent in his spirit by the ministerie of ye former Prophets: therefore came a great wrath from the Lord of hostes.
Zechariah 7:13	Therefore it is come to passe, that as he cried, and they would not heare, so they cried, and I would not heare, sayth the Lord of hostes.
Zechariah 7:14	But I scattered them among all the nations, whom they knew not: thus the land was desolate after them, that no man passed through nor returned: for they layd the pleasant land waste.
Zechariah 8:1	Againe the worde of the Lord of hostes came to me, saying,
Zechariah 8:2	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, I was ielous for Zion with great ielousie, and I was ielous for her with great wrath.
Zechariah 8:3	Thus saith the Lord, I wil returne vnto Zion, and wil dwel in the mids of Ierusalem: and Ierusalem shalbe called a citie of trueth, and the Mountaine of the Lord of hostes, the holy Mountaine.
Zechariah 8:4	Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, There shall yet olde men and olde women dwell in the streetes of Ierusalem, and euery man with his staffe in his hand for very age.
Zechariah 8:5	And the streetes of the citie shalbe full of boyes and girles, playing in the streetes thereof.
Zechariah 8:6	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, Though it be vnpossible in the eyes of the remnant of this people in these dayes, should it therefore be vnpossible in my sight, sayth the Lord of hostes?
Zechariah 8:7	Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Beholde, I will deliuer my people from the East countrey, and from the West countrey.
Zechariah 8:8	And I wil bring them, and they shall dwel in the mids of Ierusalem, and they shalbe my people, and I wil be their God in trueth, and in righteousnes.
Zechariah 8:9	Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Let your hands be strong, ye that heare in these dayes these words by the mouth of the Prophets, which were in the day, that the foundation of the House of the Lord of hostes was laide, that the Temple might be builded.
Zechariah 8:10	For before these dayes there was no hire for man nor any hire for beast, neither was there any peace to him that went out or came in because of the affliction: for I set all men, euery one against his neighbour.
Zechariah 8:11	But nowe, I wil not intreate the residue of this people as aforetime, saith the Lord of hostes.
Zechariah 8:12	For the seede shall be prosperous: the vine shall giue her fruite, and the ground shall giue her increase, and the heauens shall giue their dewe, and I will cause the remnant of this people to possesse all these things.
Zechariah 8:13	And it shall come to passe, that as ye were a curse among the heathen, O house of Iudah, and house of Israel, so wil I deliuer you, and ye shalbe a blessing: feare not, but let your hands be strong.
Zechariah 8:14	For thus sayth the Lord of hostes, As I thought to punish you, when your fathers prouoked me vnto wrath, sayth the Lord of hostes, and repented not,
Zechariah 8:15	So againe haue I determined in these daies to doe well vnto Ierusalem, and to the house of Iudah: feare ye not.
Zechariah 8:16	These are ye things that ye shall doe. Speake ye euery man the trueth vnto his neighbour: execute iudgement truely and vprightly in your gates,
Zechariah 8:17	And let none of you imagine euill in your hearts against his neighbour, and loue no false othe: for all these are the things that I hate, saith the Lord.
Zechariah 8:18	And the worde of the Lord of hostes came vnto me, saying,
Zechariah 8:19	Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, The fast of the fourth moneth, and the fast of the fift, and the fast of the seuenth, and the fast of the tenth, shall be to the house of Iudah ioy and gladnes, and prosperous hie feasts: therefore loue the trueth and peace.
Zechariah 8:20	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, That there shall yet come people, and the inhabitants of great cities.
Zechariah 8:21	And they that dwell in one citie, shall go to another, saying, Vp, let vs go and pray before the Lord, and seeke the Lord of hostes: I wil go also.
Zechariah 8:22	Yea, great people and mightie nations shall come to seeke the Lord of hostes in Ierusalem, and to pray before the Lord.
Zechariah 8:23	Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, In those dayes shall ten men take holde out of all languages of the nations, euen take holde of the skirt of him that is a Iewe, and say, We will go with you: for we haue heard that God is with you.
Zechariah 9:1	The burden of the worde of the Lord in the land of Hadrach: and Damascus shalbe his rest: when the eyes of man, euen of all the tribes of Israel shalbe toward the Lord.
Zechariah 9:2	And Hamath also shall border thereby: Tyrus also and Zidon, though they be very wise.
Zechariah 9:3	For Tyrus did build her selfe a strong holde, and heaped vp siluer as the dust, and golde as the myre of the streetes.
Zechariah 9:4	Beholde, the Lord wil spoyle her, and he wil smite her power in the Sea, and she shalbe deuoured with fire.
Zechariah 9:5	Ashkelon shall see it, and feare, and Azzah also shalbe very sorowfull, and Ekron: for her countenance shalbe ashamed, and the King shall perish from Azzah, and Ashkelon shall not be inhabited.
Zechariah 9:6	And the stranger shall dwell in Ashdod, and I wil cut off the pride of the Philistims.
Zechariah 9:7	And I wil take away his blood out of his mouth, and his abominations from betweene his teeth: but he that remaineth, euen he shalbe for our God, and he shalbe as a prince in Iudah, but Ekron shalbe as a Iebusite.
Zechariah 9:8	And I will campe about mine House against the armie, against him that passeth by, and against him that returneth, and no oppressour shall come vpon them any more: for now haue I seene with mine eyes.
Zechariah 9:9	Reioyce greatly, O daughter Zion: shoute for ioy, O daughter Ierusalem: beholde, thy King commeth vnto thee: he is iust and saued himselfe, poore and riding vpon an asse, and vpon a colt the foale of an asse.
Zechariah 9:10	And I wil cut off the charets from Ephraim, and the horse from Ierusalem: the bowe of the battel shalbe broken, and he shall speake peace vnto the heathen, and his dominion shalbe from sea vnto sea, and from the Riuer to the end of the land.
Zechariah 9:11	Thou also shalt be saued through the blood of thy couenant. I haue loosed thy prisoners out of the pit wherein is no water.
Zechariah 9:12	Turne you to the strong holde, ye prisoners of hope: euen to day doe I declare, that I will render the double vnto thee.
Zechariah 9:13	For Iudah haue I bent as a bowe for me: Ephraims hand haue I filled, and I haue raised vp thy sonnes, O Zion, against thy sonnes, O Grecia, and haue made thee as a gyants sword.
Zechariah 9:14	And the Lord shalbe seene ouer them, and his arrowe shall go forth as the lightning: and the Lord God shall blowe the trumpet, and shall come forth with the whirlewindes of the South.
Zechariah 9:15	The Lord of hostes shall defend them, and they shall deuoure them, and subdue them with sling stones, and they shall drinke, and make a noyse as thorowe wine, and they shalbe filled like bowles, and as the hornes of the altar.
Zechariah 9:16	And the Lord their God shall deliuer them in that day as the flocke of his people: for they shall be as the stones of the crowne lifted up upon his land.
Zechariah 9:17	For howe great is his goodnesse! and howe great is his beautie! corne shall make the yong men cherefull, and newe wine the maides.
Zechariah 10:1	Aske you of the Lord raine in the time of the latter raine: so shall the Lord make white cloudes, and giue you showers of raine, and to euery one grasse in the field.
Zechariah 10:2	Surely the idols haue spoken vanitie, and the southsayers haue seene a lye, and the dreamers haue tolde a vaine thing: they comfort in vaine: therefore they went away as sheepe: they were troubled, because there was no shepheard.
Zechariah 10:3	My wrath was kindled against the shepherdes, and I did visite the goates: but the Lord of hostes will visite his flocke the house of Iudah, and will make them as his beautifull horse in the battell.
Zechariah 10:4	Out of him shall the corner come foorth: out of him the nayle, out of him ye bowe of battell, and out of him euery appointer of tribute also.
Zechariah 10:5	And they shalbe as the mightie men, which treade downe their enemies in the mire of the streetes in the battell, and they shall fight, because the Lord is with them, and the riders on horses shall be confounded.
Zechariah 10:6	And I will strengthen the house of Iudah, and I will preserue the house of Ioseph, and I wil bring them againe, for I pitie them: and they shall be as though I had not cast them off: for I am the Lord their God, and will heare them.
Zechariah 10:7	And they of Ephraim shall be as a gyant, and their heart shall reioyce as thorowe wine: yea, their children shall see it, and be glad: and their heart shall reioyce in the Lord.
Zechariah 10:8	I will hisse for them, and gather them: for I haue redeemed them: and they shall encrease, as they haue encreased.
Zechariah 10:9	And I will sowe them among the people, and they shall remember me in farre countreys: and they shall liue with their children and turne againe.
Zechariah 10:10	I will bring them againe also out of the land of Egypt, and gather them out of Asshur: and I will bring them into the land of Gilead, and Lebanon, and place shall not be found for them.
Zechariah 10:11	And he shall goe into the sea with affliction, and shall smite the waues in the sea, and all the depthes of the riuer shall drye vp: and the pride of Asshur shall be cast downe, and the scepter of Egypt shall depart away.
Zechariah 10:12	And I will strengthen them in the Lord, and they shall walke in his Name, sayth the Lord.
Zechariah 11:1	Open thy doores, O Lebanon, and the fire shall deuoure thy cedars.
Zechariah 11:2	Houle, firre trees: for the cedar is fallen, because all the mightie are destroyed: houle ye, O okes of Bashan, for ye defesed forest is cut downe.
Zechariah 11:3	There is the voyce of the houling of the shepherdes: for their glorie is destroyed: the voyce of ye roaring of lyons whelpes: for the pride of Iorden is destroyed.
Zechariah 11:4	Thus sayeth the Lord my God, Feede the sheepe of the slaughter.
Zechariah 11:5	They that possesse them, slay them and sinne not: and they that sell them, say, Blessed be the Lord: for I am riche, and their owne shepherds spare them not.
Zechariah 11:6	Surely I wil no more spare those that dwell in the land, sayth the Lord: but loe, I will deliuer the men euery one into his neighbours hand, and into the hand of his King: and they shall smite the land, and out of their hands I wil not deliuer them.
Zechariah 11:7	For I fed the sheepe of slaughter, euen the poore of the flocke, and I tooke vnto me two staues: the one I called Beautie, and the other I called Bandes, and I fed the sheepe.
Zechariah 11:8	Three shepherdes also I cut off in one moneth, and my soule lothed them, and their soule abhorred me.
Zechariah 11:9	Then said I, I will not feede you: that that dyeth, let it dye: and that that perisheth, let it perish: and let the remnant eate, euery one the flesh of his neighbour.
Zechariah 11:10	And I tooke my staffe, euen Beautie, and brake it, that I might disanull my couenant, which I had made with all people.
Zechariah 11:11	And it was broken in that day: and so the poore of the sheepe that waited vpon me, knew that it was the worde of the Lord.
Zechariah 11:12	And I said vnto them, If ye thinke it good, giue me my wages: and if no, leaue off: so they weighed for my wages thirtie pieces of siluer.
Zechariah 11:13	And the Lord said vnto me, Cast it vnto the potter: a goodly price, that I was valued at of them. And I tooke the thirtie pieces of siluer, and cast them to the potter in the house of the Lord.
Zechariah 11:14	Then brake I mine other staffe, euen the Bandes, that I might dissolue the brotherhood betweene Iudah and Israel.
Zechariah 11:15	And the Lord said vnto me, Take to thee yet the instruments of a foolish shepheard.
Zechariah 11:16	For loe, I will rayse vp a shepheard in the land, which shall not looke for the thing, that is lost, nor seeke the tender lambes, nor heale that that is hurt, nor feede that that standeth vp: but he shall eate the flesh of the fat, and teare their clawes in pieces.
Zechariah 11:17	O idole shepheard that leaueth the flocke: the sword shalbe vpon his arme, and vpon his right eye. His arme shall be cleane dryed vp, and his right eye shall be vtterly darkened.
Zechariah 12:1	The burden of the worde of the Lord vpon Israel, sayth the Lord, which spred the heauens, and layed the foundation of the earth, and formed the spirite of man within him.
Zechariah 12:2	Beholde, I will make Ierusalem a cuppe of poyson vnto all the people round about: and also with Iudah will he be, in ye siege against Ierusalem.
Zechariah 12:3	And in that day will I make Ierusalem an heauie stone for all people: all that lift it vp, shall be torne, though all the people of the earth be gathered together against it.
Zechariah 12:4	In that day, sayeth the Lord, I will smite euery horse with astonishment, and his rider with madnesse, and I will open mine eyes vpon the house of Iudah, and will smite euery horse of the people with blindnesse.
Zechariah 12:5	And the princes of Iudah shall say in their hearts, The inhabitants of Ierusalem shall be my strength in the Lord of hostes their God.
Zechariah 12:6	In that day will I make the princes of Iudah like coles of fire among the wood, and like a fire brand in the sheafe, and they shall deuoure all the people round about on the right hand, and on the left: and Ierusalem shall be inhabited againe in her owne place, euen in Ierusalem.
Zechariah 12:7	The Lord also shall preserue the tents of Iudah, as afore time: therefore the glorie of the house of Dauid shall not boast, nor the glorie of the inhabitants of Ierusalem against Iudah.
Zechariah 12:8	In that day shall the Lord defende the inhabitants of Ierusalem, and he that is feeble among them, in that day shall be as Dauid: and the house of Dauid shall be as Gods house, and as the Angel of the Lord before them.
Zechariah 12:9	And in that day will I seeke to destroy all the nations that come against Ierusalem.
Zechariah 12:10	And I will powre vpon the house of Dauid, and vpon the inhabitants of Ierusalem the Spirite of grace and of compassion, and they shall looke vpon me, whom they haue pearced, and they shall lament for him, as one mourneth for his onely sonne, and be sorie for him as one is sorie for his first borne.
Zechariah 12:11	In that day shall there be a great mourning in Ierusalem, as the mourning of Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddon.
Zechariah 12:12	And the land shall bewayle euery familie apart, the familie of the house of Dauid apart, and their wiues apart: the familie of the house of Nathan apart, and their wiues apart:
Zechariah 12:13	The familie of the house of Leui apart, and their wiues apart: the familie of Shemei apart, and their wiues apart:
Zechariah 12:14	All the families that remaine, euery familie apart, and their wiues apart.
Zechariah 13:1	In that day there shall be a fountaine opened to the house of Dauid, and to the inhabitants of Ierusalem, for sinne and for vncleannesse.
Zechariah 13:2	And in that day, sayth the Lord of hostes, I will cut off the names of the idoles out of the land: and they shall no more be remembred: and I will cause the prophets, and the vncleane spirit to depart out of the land.
Zechariah 13:3	And when any shall yet prophesie, his father and his mother that begate him, shall say vnto him, Thou shalt not liue: for thou speakest lies in the name of the Lord: and his father and his mother that begat him, shall thrust him through, when he prophesieth.
Zechariah 13:4	And in that day shall the prophetes be ashamed euery one of his vision, when he hath prophesied: neither shall they weare a rough garment to deceiue.
Zechariah 13:5	But he shall say, I am no Prophet: I am an husbandman: for man taught me to be an heardman from my youth vp.
Zechariah 13:6	And one shall say vnto him, What are these woundes in thine hands? Then he shall answere, Thus was I wounded in the house of my friendes.
Zechariah 13:7	Arise, O sword, vpon my shepheard, and vpon the man, that is my fellow, sayth the Lord of hostes: smite the shepheard, and the sheepe shall be scattered: and I will turne mine hand vpon the litle ones.
Zechariah 13:8	And in all the land, sayeth the Lord, two partes therein shall be cut off, and die: but the third shall be left therein.
Zechariah 13:9	And I will bring that third part thorowe the fire, and will fine them as the siluer is fined, and will trye them as golde is tryed: they shall call on my Name, and I will heare them: I will say, It is my people, and they shall say, The Lord is my God.
Zechariah 14:1	Beholde, the day of the Lord commeth, and thy spoyle shall be deuided in the middes of thee.
Zechariah 14:2	For I will gather all nations against Ierusalem to battell, and the citie shall be taken, and the houses spoyled, and the women defiled, and halfe of the citie shall goe into captiuitie, and the residue of the people shall not be cut off from ye citie.
Zechariah 14:3	Then shall the Lord goe foorth, and fight against those nations, as when he fought in the day of battell.
Zechariah 14:4	And his feete shall stand in that day vpon the mount of oliues, which is before Ierusalem on the Eastside, and the mount of oliues shall cleaue in the middes thereof: toward the East and toward the West there shalbe a very great valley, and halfe of ye mountaine shall remooue toward the North, and halfe of the mountaine towarde the South.
Zechariah 14:5	And yee shall flee vnto the valley of the mountaines: for the valley of the mountaines shall reache vnto Azal: yea, yee shall flee like as ye fled from the earthquake in the daies of Vzziah King of Iudah: and the Lord my God shall come, and all the Saints with thee.
Zechariah 14:6	And in that day shall there bee no cleare light, but darke.
Zechariah 14:7	And there shall bee a day (it is knowen to the Lord) neither day nor night, but about the euening time it shall be light.
Zechariah 14:8	And in that day shall there waters of life goe out from Ierusalem, halfe of them towarde the East sea, and halfe of them towarde the vttermost sea, and shall be, both in sommer and winter.
Zechariah 14:9	And the Lord shall bee King ouer all the earth: in that day shall there bee one Lord, and his Name shalbe one.
Zechariah 14:10	All the lande shall bee turned as a plaine from Geba to Rimmon, towarde the South of Ierusalem, and it shall be lifted vp, and inhabited in her place: from Beniamins gate vnto the place of the first gate, vnto the corner gate, and from the towre of Hananiel, vnto the Kings wine presses.
Zechariah 14:11	And men shall dwell in it, and there shall bee no more destruction, but Ierusalem shall bee safely inhabited.
Zechariah 14:12	And this shall bee the plague, wherewith the Lord will smite all people, that haue fought against Ierusalem: their flesh shall consume away, though they stand vpon their feete, and their eyes shall consume in their holes, and their tongue shall consume in their mouth.
Zechariah 14:13	But in that day a great tumult of the Lord shall be among them, and euery one shall take the hande of his neighbour, and his hande shall rise vp against the hand of his neighbour.
Zechariah 14:14	And Iudah shall fight also against Ierusalem, and the arme of all the heathen shall be gathered rounde about, with golde and siluer, and great abundance of apparell.
Zechariah 14:15	Yet this shall be the plague of the horse, of the mule, of the camell and of the asse and of all the beasts that be in these tents as this plague.
Zechariah 14:16	But it shall come to passe that euery one that is left of all the nations, which came against Ierusalem, shall goe vp from yere to yere to worship the King the Lord of hostes, and to keepe the feast of Tabernacles.
Zechariah 14:17	And who so will not come vp of all the families of the earth vnto Ierusalem to worship the King the Lord of hostes, euen vpon them shall come no raine.
Zechariah 14:18	And if the familie of Egypt goe not vp, and come not, it shall not raine vpon them. This shall be the plague wherewith the Lord will smite all the heathen, that come not vp to keepe the feast of Tabernacles.
Zechariah 14:19	This shall be the punishment of Egypt, and the punishment of all the nations that come not vp to keepe the feast of Tabernacles.
Zechariah 14:20	In that day shall there be written vpon the bridles of the horses, The holinesse vnto the Lord, and the pottes in the Lords house shall be like the bowles before the altar.
Zechariah 14:21	Yea, euery potte in Ierusalem and Iudah shall be holy vnto the Lord of hostes, and all they that sacrifice, shall come and take of them, and seethe therein: and in that day there shall be no more the Canaanite in the House of the Lord of hostes.

===== BOOK: Zephaniah =====
Zephaniah 1:1	The word of the Lord, which came vnto Zephaniah ye sonne of Cushi, the sonne of Gedaliah, the sonne of Amariah, the sonne of Hizkiah, in the dayes of Iosiah, the sonne of Amon King of Iudah.
Zephaniah 1:2	I will surely destroy all things from off the land, saith the Lord.
Zephaniah 1:3	I will destroy man and beast: I wil destroy the foules of the heauen, and the fishes of the sea, and ruines shalbe to the wicked, and I will cut off man from off the land, saith the Lord.
Zephaniah 1:4	I will also stretch out mine hand vpon Iudah, and vpon all the inhabitants of Ierusalem, and I wil cut off the remnant of Baal from this place, and the name of the Chemarims with ye Priestes,
Zephaniah 1:5	And them that worship the hoste of heauen vpon the house tops, and them that worship and sweare by the Lord, and sweare by Malcham,
Zephaniah 1:6	And them that are turned backe from the Lord, and those that haue not sought the Lord, nor inquired for him.
Zephaniah 1:7	Be stil at the presence of the Lord God: for the day of the Lord is at hand: for the Lord hath prepared a sacrifice, and hath sanctified his ghests.
Zephaniah 1:8	And it shalbe in the day of the Lords sacrifice, that I will visite the princes and the Kings children, and all such as are clothed with strange apparell.
Zephaniah 1:9	In the same day also will I visite all those that dance vpon the threshold so proudly, which fill their masters houses by crueltie and deceite.
Zephaniah 1:10	And in that day, saith the Lord, there shall be a noise, and cry from the fishgate, and an howling from the second gate, and a great destruction from the hilles.
Zephaniah 1:11	Howle ye inhabitants of the lowe place: for the companie of the marchants is destroyed: all they that beare siluer, are cut off.
Zephaniah 1:12	And at that time will I searche Ierusalem with lightes, and visite the men that are frosen in their dregges, and say in their heartes, The Lord will neither doe good nor doe euill.
Zephaniah 1:13	Therefore their goods shall be spoyled, and their houses waste: they shall also build houses, but not inhabite them, and they shall plant vineyards, but not drinke the wine thereof.
Zephaniah 1:14	The great day of the Lord is neere: it is neere, and hasteth greatly, euen the voyce of the day of the Lord: the strong man shall cry there bitterly.
Zephaniah 1:15	That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and heauinesse, a day of destruction and desolation, a day of obscuritie and darkenesse, a day of cloudes and blackenesse,
Zephaniah 1:16	A day of the trumpet and alarme against the strong cities, and against the hie towres.
Zephaniah 1:17	And I will bring distresse vpon men, that they shall walke like blind men, because they haue sinned against the Lord, and their blood shall be powred out as dust, and their flesh as the dongue.
Zephaniah 1:18	Neither their siluer nor their golde shalbe able to deliuer them in ye day of the Lords wrath, but the whole lande shalbe deuoured by the fire of his ielousie: for hee shall make euen a speedie riddance of all them that dwell in the land.
Zephaniah 2:1	Gather your selues, euen gather you, O nation not worthie to be loued,
Zephaniah 2:2	Before the decree come foorth, and ye be as chaffe that passeth in a day, and before the fierce wrath of the Lord come vpon you, and before the day of the Lords anger come vpon you.
Zephaniah 2:3	Seeke yee the Lord all the meeke of the earth, which haue wrought his iudgement: seeke righteousnesse, seeke lowlinesse, if so bee that ye may be hid in the day of the Lords wrath.
Zephaniah 2:4	For Azzah shall be forsaken, and Ashkelon desolate: they shall driue out Ashdod at the noone day, and Ekron shalbe rooted vp.
Zephaniah 2:5	Wo vnto the inhabitants of the sea coast. the nation of the Cherethims, the worde of the Lord is against you: O Canaan, the lande of the Philistims, I will euen destroye thee without an inhabitant.
Zephaniah 2:6	And the sea coast shall be dwellings and cotages for shepheardes and sheepefoldes.
Zephaniah 2:7	And that coast shall be for the remnant of the house of Iudah, to feede thereupon: in the houses of Ashkelon shall they lodge toward night: for the Lord their God shall visite them, and turne away their captiuitie.
Zephaniah 2:8	I haue heard the reproch of Moab, and the rebukes of the children of Ammon, whereby they vpbraided my people, and magnified themselues against their borders.
Zephaniah 2:9	Therefore, as I liue, saith the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Surely Moab shall bee as Sodom, and the children of Ammon as Gomorah, euen the breeding of nettels and salt pittes, and a perpetuall desolation: the residue of my folke shall spoyle them, and the remnant of my people shall possesse them.
Zephaniah 2:10	This shall they haue for their pride, because they haue reproched and magnified themselues against the Lord of hostes people.
Zephaniah 2:11	The Lord will be terrible vnto them: for he wil consume all the gods of the earth, and euery man shall worship him from his place, euen all the yles of the heathen.
Zephaniah 2:12	Ye Morians also shalbe slaine by my sword with them.
Zephaniah 2:13	And he wil stretch out his hand against the North, and destroy Asshur, and will make Nineueh desolate, and waste like a wildernesse.
Zephaniah 2:14	And flockes shall lie in the middes of her, and all the beastes of the nations, and the pelicane, and the owle shall abide in the vpper postes of it: the voyce of birdes shall sing in the windowes, and desolations shalbe vpon the postes: for the cedars are vncouered.
Zephaniah 2:15	This is the reioycing citie that dwelt carelesse, that said in her heart, I am, and there is none besides me: how is she made waste, and the lodging of the beastes! euery one that passeth by her, shall hisse and wagge his hand.
Zephaniah 3:1	Woe to her that is filthie and polluted, to the robbing citie.
Zephaniah 3:2	She heard not the voyce: she receiued not correction: she trusted not in the Lord: she drew not neere to her God.
Zephaniah 3:3	Her princes within her are as roaring lyons: her iudges are as wolues in the euening, which leaue not the bones till the morow.
Zephaniah 3:4	Her prophets are light, and wicked persons: her priests haue polluted the Sanctuarie: they haue wrested the Lawe.
Zephaniah 3:5	The iust Lord is in the middes thereof: he will doe none iniquitie: euery morning doeth hee bring his iudgement to light, he faileth not: but the wicked will not learne to be ashamed.
Zephaniah 3:6	I haue cut off the nations: their towres are desolate: I haue made their streetes waste, that none shall passe by: their cities are destroyed without man and without inhabitant.
Zephaniah 3:7	I said, Surely thou wilt feare me: thou wilt receiue instruction: so their dwelling shoulde not be destroyed howsoeuer I visited them, but they rose earely and corrupted all their workes.
Zephaniah 3:8	Therefore wait ye vpon me, saith the Lord, vntill the day that I rise vp to the praye: for I am determined to gather the nations, and that I will assemble the kingdomes to powre vpon them mine indignation, euen all my fierce wrath: for all the earth shall be deuoured with the fire of my ielousie.
Zephaniah 3:9	Surely then will I turne to the people a pure language, that they may all call vpon the Name of the Lord, to serue him with one cosent.
Zephaniah 3:10	From beyonde the riuers of Ethiopia, the daughter of my dispersed, praying vnto me, shall bring me an offering.
Zephaniah 3:11	In that day shalt thou not be ashamed for all thy workes, wherein thou hast transgressed against mee: for then I will take away out of the middes of thee them that reioyce of thy pride, and thou shalt no more be proude of mine holy Mountaine.
Zephaniah 3:12	Then will I leaue in the middes of thee an humble and poore people: and they shall trust in the Name of the Lord.
Zephaniah 3:13	The remnant of Israel shall do none iniquitie, nor speake lies: neither shall a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth: for they shalbe fed, and lie downe, and none shall make them afraide.
Zephaniah 3:14	Reioyce, O daughter Zion: be ye ioyfull, O Israel: be glad and reioyce with all thine heart, O daughter Ierusalem.
Zephaniah 3:15	The Lord hath taken away thy iudgements: hee hath cast out thine enemie: the King of Israel, euen the Lord is in the middes of thee: thou shalt see no more euill.
Zephaniah 3:16	In that day it shalbe said to Ierusalem, Feare thou not, O Zion: let not thine handes be faint.
Zephaniah 3:17	The Lord thy God in the middes of thee is mightie: hee will saue, hee will reioyce ouer thee with ioye: he will quiet himselfe in his loue: he will reioyce ouer thee with ioy.
Zephaniah 3:18	After a certaine time will I gather the afflicted that were of thee, and them that bare the reproch for it.
Zephaniah 3:19	Beholde, at that time I will bruise all that afflict thee, and I will saue her that halteth, and gather her that was cast out, and I will get them praise and fame in all the landes of their shame.
Zephaniah 3:20	At that time wil I bring you againe, and then wil I gather you: for I wil giue you a name and a praise among all people of the earth, when I turne backe your captiuitie before your eyes, saith the Lord.
