GENEVA 1599 PUBLIC DOMAIN CORPUS

===== BOOK: Jeremiah =====
Jeremiah 1:1	The wordes of Ieremiah the sonne of Hilkiah one of the Priests that were at Anathoth in the lande of Beniamin.
Jeremiah 1:2	To whom the worde of the Lord came in the dayes of Iosiah the sonne of Amon King of Iudah in the thirteenth yeere of his reigne:
Jeremiah 1:3	And also in the dayes of Iehoiakim the sonne of Iosiah King of Iudah vnto the ende of the eleuenth yeere of Zedekiah, the sonne of Iosiah King of Iudah, euen vnto the carying away of Ierusalem captiue in the fift moneth.
Jeremiah 1:4	Then the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Jeremiah 1:5	Before I formed thee in the wombe, I knewe thee, and before thou camest out of the wombe, I sanctified thee, and ordeined thee to be a Prophet vnto the nations.
Jeremiah 1:6	Then said I, Oh, Lord God, behold, I can not speake, for I am a childe.
Jeremiah 1:7	But the Lord said vnto me, Say not, I am a childe: for thou shalt goe to all that I shall send thee, and whatsoeuer I command thee, shalt thou speake.
Jeremiah 1:8	Be not afraide of their faces: for I am with thee to deliuer thee, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 1:9	Then the Lord stretched out his hand and touched my mouth, and the Lord said vnto me, Beholde, I haue put my wordes in thy mouth.
Jeremiah 1:10	Beholde, this day haue I set thee ouer the nations and ouer the kingdomes to plucke vp, and to roote out, and to destroye and throwe downe, to builde, and to plant.
Jeremiah 1:11	After this the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying, Ieremiah, what seest thou? And I said, I see a rod of an almonde tree.
Jeremiah 1:12	Then saide the Lord vnto me, Thou hast seene aright: for I will hasten my worde to performe it.
Jeremiah 1:13	Againe the worde of the Lord came vnto me the second time, saying, What seest thou? And I saide, I see a seething pot looking out of the North.
Jeremiah 1:14	Then saide the Lord vnto me, Out of the North shall a plague be spred vpon all the inhabitants of the land.
Jeremiah 1:15	For loe, I will call all the families of the kingdomes of the North, saith the Lord, and they shall come, and euery one shall set his throne in the entring of the gates of Ierusalem, and on all the walles thereof rounde about, and in all the cities of Iudah.
Jeremiah 1:16	And I will declare vnto them my iudgements touching all the wickednesse of them that haue forsaken me, and haue burnt incense vnto other gods, and worshipped the workes of their owne handes.
Jeremiah 1:17	Thou therefore trusse vp thy loynes, and arise and speake vnto them all that I commaund thee: be not afraide of their faces, lest I destroy thee before them.
Jeremiah 1:18	For I, beholde, I this day haue made thee a defenced citie, and an yron pillar and walles of brasse against the whole lande, against the Kings of Iudah, and against the princes thereof, against the Priestes thereof and against the people of the lande.
Jeremiah 1:19	For they shall fight against thee, but they shall not preuaile against thee: for I am with thee to deliuer thee, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 2:1	Moreover, the woorde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Jeremiah 2:2	Goe, and crie in the eares of Ierusalem, saying, Thus sayeth the Lord, I remember thee, with the kindenes of thy youth and the loue of thy marriage, when thou wentest after me in the wildernes in a lande that was not sowen.
Jeremiah 2:3	Israel was as a thing halowed vnto the Lord, and his first fruits: all they that eat it, shall offend: euil shall come vpon them, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 2:4	Heare ye the word of the Lord, O house of Iaakob, and all the families of the house of Israel.
Jeremiah 2:5	Thus sayeth the Lord, What iniquitie haue your fathers founde in mee, that they are gone farre from mee, and haue walked after vanitie, and are become vaine?
Jeremiah 2:6	For they saide not, Where is the Lord that brought vs vp out of the lande of Egypt? that led vs through the wildernesse, through a desert, and waste land, through a drie land, and by the shadow of death, by a land that no man passed through, and where no man dwelt?
Jeremiah 2:7	And I brought you into a plentifull countrey, to eat the fruit thereof, and the commodities of the same: but when yee entred, yee defiled my land, and made mine heritage an abomination.
Jeremiah 2:8	The priests said not, Where is the Lord? and they that should minister the Lawe, knewe me not: the pastours also offended against me, and the Prophets prophesied in Baal, and went after things that did not profite.
Jeremiah 2:9	Wherefore I wil yet plead with you, saith the Lord, and I will pleade with your childrens children.
Jeremiah 2:10	For goe ye to the yles of Chittim, and beholde, and sende vnto Kedar. and take diligent heede, and see whether there be such things.
Jeremiah 2:11	Hath any nation changed their gods, which yet are no gods? but my people haue chaged their glorie, for that which doeth not profite.
Jeremiah 2:12	O yee heauens, be astonied at this: bee afraid and vtterly confounded, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 2:13	For my people haue committed two euils: they haue forsaken mee the fountaine of liuing waters, to digge them pittes, euen broken pittes, that can holde no water.
Jeremiah 2:14	Is Israel a seruaunt, or is hee borne in the house? why then is he spoiled?
Jeremiah 2:15	The lions roared vpon him and yelled, and they haue made his land waste: his cities are burnt without an inhabitant.
Jeremiah 2:16	Also the children of Noph and Tahapanes haue broken thine head.
Jeremiah 2:17	Hast not thou procured this vnto thy selfe, because thou hast forsaken the Lord thy God, when he led thee by the way?
Jeremiah 2:18	And what hast thou now to do in the way of Egypt? to drinke the water of Nilus? or what makest thou in the way of Asshur? to drinke the water of the Riuer?
Jeremiah 2:19	Thine owne wickednes shall correct thee, and thy turnings backe shall reprooue thee: know therefore and beholde, that it is an euil thing, and bitter, that thou hast forsaken the Lord thy God, and that my feare is not in thee, sayeth the Lord God of hostes.
Jeremiah 2:20	For of olde time I haue broken thy yoke, and burst thy bondes, and thou saidest, I will no more transgresse, but like an harlot thou runnest about vpon al hie hilles, and vnder all greene trees.
Jeremiah 2:21	Yet I had planted thee, a noble vine, whose plants were all natural: howe then art thou turned vnto me into the plants of a strange vine?
Jeremiah 2:22	Though thou wash thee with nitre, and take thee much sope, yet thine iniquitie is marked before me, sayeth the Lord God.
Jeremiah 2:23	Howe canst thou say, I am not polluted, neither haue I followed Baalim? beholde thy waies in the valley, and know, what thou hast done: thou art like a swift dromedarie, that runneth by his waies.
Jeremiah 2:24	And as a wilde asse, vsed to the wildernesse, that snuffeth vp the winde by occasion at her pleasure: who can turne her backe? all they that seeke her, will not wearie themselues, but wil finde her in her moneth.
Jeremiah 2:25	Keepe thou thy feete from barenes, and thy throte from thirst: but thou saidest desperately, No, for I haue loued strangers, and them will I follow.
Jeremiah 2:26	As the theefe is ashamed, when he is foud, so is the house of Israel ashamed, they, their kings, their princes and their Priests, and their Prophets,
Jeremiah 2:27	Saying to a tree, Thou art my father, and to a stone, Thou hast begotten me: for they haue turned their back vnto me, and not their face: but in ye time of their troble they wil say, Arise, and help vs.
Jeremiah 2:28	But where are thy gods, that thou hast made thee? let them arise, if they can helpe thee in the time of thy trouble: for according to the nomber of thy cities, are thy gods, O Iudah.
Jeremiah 2:29	Wherefore wil ye pleade with me? ye all haue rebelled against me, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 2:30	I haue smitten your children in vaine, they receiued no correction: your owne sworde hath deuoured your Prophets like a destroying lyon.
Jeremiah 2:31	O generation, take heede to the worde of the Lord: haue I bene as a wildernesse vnto Israel? or a lande of darkenesse? Wherefore sayeth my people then, We are lordes, we will come no more vnto thee?
Jeremiah 2:32	Can a maid forget her ornament, or a bride her attire? yet my people haue forgotten me, daies without number.
Jeremiah 2:33	Why doest thou prepare thy way, to seeke amitie? euen therefore will I teach thee, that thy waies are wickednesse.
Jeremiah 2:34	Also in thy wings is founde the bloud of the soules of ye poore innocents: I haue not found it in holes, but vpon all these places.
Jeremiah 2:35	Yet thou saiest, Because I am giltles, surely his wrath shall turne from mee: beholde, I will enter with thee into iudgement, because thou saiest, I haue not sinned.
Jeremiah 2:36	Why runnest thou about so much to change thy waies? for thou shalt be confounded of Egypt, as thou art confounded of Asshur.
Jeremiah 2:37	For thou shalt goe foorth from thence, and thine hands vpon thine head, because the Lord hath reiected thy confidence, and thou shalt not prosper thereby.
Jeremiah 3:1	They say, If a man put away his wife, and she goe from him, and become another mans, shall hee returne againe vnto her? shall not this land be polluted? but thou hast played the harlot with many louers: yet turne againe to mee, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 3:2	Lift vp thine eyes vnto the hie places, and beholde, where thou hast not plaied the harlot: thou hast sit waiting for them in the waies, as the Arabian in the wildernesse: and thou hast polluted the lande with thy whoredomes, and with thy malice.
Jeremiah 3:3	Therefore the showres haue beene restrained, and the latter raine came not, and thou haddest a whores forehead: thou wouldest not bee ashamed.
Jeremiah 3:4	Diddest thou not stil crie vnto me, Thou art my father, and the guide of my youth?
Jeremiah 3:5	Wil he keepe his anger for euer? will he reserue it to the ende? thus hast thou spoken, but thou doest euill, euen more and more.
Jeremiah 3:6	The Lord saide also vnto me, in the daies of Iosiah the King, Hast thou seene what this rebell Israel hath done? for she hath gone vp vpon euery high mountaine, and vnder euery greene tree, and there plaied the harlot.
Jeremiah 3:7	And I sayde, when shee had done all this, Turne thou vnto me: but she returned not, as her rebellious sister Iudah sawe.
Jeremiah 3:8	When I sawe, howe that by all occasions rebellious Israel had plaied the harlot, I cast her away, and gaue her a bill of diuorcement: yet her rebellious sister Iudah was not afraied, but shee went also, and plaied the harlot.
Jeremiah 3:9	So that for the lightnesse of her whoredome shee hath euen defiled the lande: for shee hath committed fornication with stones and stockes.
Jeremiah 3:10	Neuerthelesse for all this, her rebellious sister Iudah hath not returned vnto mee with her whole heart, but fainedly, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 3:11	And the Lord said vnto me, The rebellious Israel hath iustified her selfe more then the rebellious Iudah.
Jeremiah 3:12	Goe and crie these woordes towarde the North and say, Thou disobedient Israel, returne, sayeth the Lord, and I will not let my wrath fall vpon you: for I am mercifull, sayeth the Lord, and I will not alway keepe mine anger.
Jeremiah 3:13	But knowe thine iniquitie: for thou hast rebelled against the Lord thy God, and hast scattered thy waies to the straunge gods vnder euery greene tree, but yee woulde not obey my voyce, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 3:14	O yee disobedient children, turne againe, sayeth the Lord, for I am your Lord, and I will take you one of a citie, and two of a tribe and wil bring you to Zion,
Jeremiah 3:15	And I will giue you pastours according to mine heart, which shall feede you with knowledge and vnderstanding.
Jeremiah 3:16	Moreouer, when yee be increased and multiplied in the land, in those daies, saieth the Lord, they shall say no more, The Arke of the couenant of the Lord: for it shall come no more to minde, neither shall they remember it, neither shall they visite it, for that shalbe no more done.
Jeremiah 3:17	At that time they shall cal Ierusalem, The throne of the Lord, and all the nations shall be gathered vnto it, euen to the Name of the Lord in Ierusalem: and thence foorth they shall follow no more the hardnesse of their wicked heart.
Jeremiah 3:18	In those daies ye house of Iudah shall walke with the house of Israel, and they shall come together out of the lande of the North, into the lande, that I haue giuen for an inheritance vnto your fathers.
Jeremiah 3:19	But I sayde, Howe did I take thee for children and giue thee a pleasant lande, euen the glorious heritage of the armies of the heathen, and saide, Thou shalt call mee, saying, My father, and shalt not turne from me?
Jeremiah 3:20	But as a woman rebelleth against her husband: so haue yee rebelled against me, O house of Israel, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 3:21	A voice was heard vpon the hie places, weeping and supplications of the children of Israel: for they haue peruerted their way, and forgotten the Lord their God.
Jeremiah 3:22	O yee disobedient children, returne and I wil heale your rebellions. Behold, we come vnto thee, for thou art the Lord our God.
Jeremiah 3:23	Truely the hope of the hilles is but vaine, nor the multitude of mountaines: but in the Lord our God is the health of Israel.
Jeremiah 3:24	For confusion hath deuoured our fathers labour, from our youth their sheepe and their bullocks, their sonnes and their daughters.
Jeremiah 3:25	Wee lie downe in our confusion, and our shame couereth vs: for we haue sinned against the Lord our God, we and our fathers from our youth, euen vnto this day, and haue not obeyed the voyce of the Lord our God.
Jeremiah 4:1	O Israel, if thou returne, returne vnto me, saith the Lord: and if thou put away thine abominations out of my sight, then shalt thou not remoue.
Jeremiah 4:2	And thou shalt sweare, The Lord liueth in trueth, in iudgement, and in righteousnesse, and the nations shall be blessed in him, and shall glorie in him.
Jeremiah 4:3	For thus saith the Lord to the men of Iudah, and to Ierusalem,
Jeremiah 4:4	Breake vp your fallowe ground, and sowe not among the thornes: be circumcised to the Lord, and take away the foreskinnes of your hearts, ye men of Iudah, and inhabitants of Ierusalem, lest my wrath come foorth like fire, and burne, that none can quenche it, because of the wickednesse of your inuentions.
Jeremiah 4:5	Declare in Iudah, and shewe forth in Ierusalem, and say, Blowe the trumpet in the lande: cry, and gather together, and say, Assemble your selues, and let vs goe into strong cities.
Jeremiah 4:6	Set vp the standart in Zion: prepare to flee, and stay not: for I will bring a plague from the North, and a great destruction.
Jeremiah 4:7	The lyon is come vp from his denne, and the destroyer of the Gentiles is departed, and gone forth of his place to lay thy land waste, and thy cities shalbe destroyed without an inhabitant.
Jeremiah 4:8	Wherefore girde you with sackecloth: lament, and howle, for the fierce wrath of the Lord is not turned backe from vs.
Jeremiah 4:9	And in that day, saith the Lord, the heart of the King shall perish, and the heart of the princes and the Priestes shall be astonished, and the Prophets shall wonder.
Jeremiah 4:10	Then saide I, Ah, Lord God, surely thou hast deceiued this people and Ierusalem, saying, Ye shall haue peace, and the sworde perceth vnto the heart.
Jeremiah 4:11	At that time shall it bee saide to this people and to Ierusalem, A dry winde in the hie places of the wildernes commeth towarde ye daughter of my people, but neither to fanne nor to clense.
Jeremiah 4:12	A mightie winde shall come vnto me from those places, and nowe will I also giue sentence vpon them.
Jeremiah 4:13	Beholde, he shall come vp as the cloudes, and his charets shalbe as a tempest: his horses are lighter then eagles. Woe vnto vs, for wee are destroyed.
Jeremiah 4:14	O Ierusalem, wash thine heart from wickednes, that thou maiest be saued: how long shall thy wicked thoughtes remaine within thee?
Jeremiah 4:15	For a voyce declareth from Dan, and publisheth affliction from mount Ephraim.
Jeremiah 4:16	Make ye mention of the heathen, and publish in Ierusalem, Beholde, the skoutes come from a farre countrey, and crie out against the cities of Iudah.
Jeremiah 4:17	They haue compassed her about as the watchmen of the fielde, because it hath prouoked me to wrath, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 4:18	Thy wayes and thine inuentions haue procured thee these things, such is thy wickednesse: therefore it shall be bitter, therefore it shall perce vnto thine heart.
Jeremiah 4:19	My bely, my bely, I am pained, euen at the very heart: mine heart is troubled within me: I cannot be still: for my soule hath heard the sounde of the trumpet, and the alarme of the battell.
Jeremiah 4:20	Destruction vpon destruction is cryed, for the whole lande is wasted: suddenly are my tents destroyed, and my curtaines in a moment.
Jeremiah 4:21	Howe long shall I see the standert, and heare the sounde of the trumpet?
Jeremiah 4:22	For my people is foolish, they haue not knowen me: they are foolish children, and haue none vnderstanding: they are wise to doe euill, but to doe well they haue no knowledge.
Jeremiah 4:23	I haue looked vpon the earth, and loe, it was without forme and voide: and to the heauens, and they had no light.
Jeremiah 4:24	I behelde the mountaines: and loe, they trembled and all the hilles shooke.
Jeremiah 4:25	I behelde, and loe, there was no man, and all the birdes of the heauen were departed.
Jeremiah 4:26	I behelde, and loe, the fruitfull place was a wildernesse, and all the cities thereof were broken downe at the presence of the Lord, and by his fierce wrath.
Jeremiah 4:27	For thus hath the Lord saide, The whole lande shall be desolate: yet will I not make a full ende.
Jeremiah 4:28	Therefore shall the earth mourne, and the heauens aboue shall be darkened, because I haue pronounced it: I haue thought it, and will not repent, neither will I turne backe from it.
Jeremiah 4:29	The whole citie shall flee, for the noyse of the horsemen and bowemen: they shall goe into thickets, and clime vp vpon the rockes: euery citie shall be forsaken, and not a man dwell therein.
Jeremiah 4:30	And when thou shalt be destroyed, what wilt thou doe? Though thou clothest thy selfe with skarlet, though thou deckest thee with ornaments of golde, though thou paintest thy face with colours, yet shalt thou trimme thy selfe in vaine: for thy louers will abhorre thee and seeke thy life.
Jeremiah 4:31	For I haue heard a noyse as of a woman trauailing, or as one labouring of her first child, euen the voyce of the daughter Zion that sigheth and stretcheth out her handes: woe is me nowe: for my soule fainteth because of the murtherers.
Jeremiah 5:1	Run to and from by the streetes of Ierusalem, and beholde nowe, and knowe, and inquire in the open places thereof, if ye can finde a man, or if there be any that executeth iudgement, and seeketh the trueth, and I will spare it.
Jeremiah 5:2	For though they say, The Lord liueth, yet doe they sweare falsely.
Jeremiah 5:3	O Lord, are not thine eyes vpon the trueth? thou hast striken them, but they haue not sorowed: thou hast consumed them, but they haue refused to receiue correction: they haue made their faces harder then a stone, and haue refused to returne.
Jeremiah 5:4	Therefore I saide, Surely they are poore, they are foolish, for they know not the way of the Lord, nor the iudgement of their God.
Jeremiah 5:5	I will get me vnto the great men, and will speake vnto them: for they haue knowen the way of the Lord, and the iudgement of their God: but these haue altogether broken the yoke, and burst the bondes.
Jeremiah 5:6	Wherefore a lyon out of the forest shall slay them, and a wolfe of the wildernesse shall destroy them: a leopard shall watch ouer their cities: euery one that goeth out thence, shall be torne in pieces, because their trespasses are many, and their rebellions are increased.
Jeremiah 5:7	Howe should I spare thee for this? thy children haue forsaken me, and sworne by them that are no gods: though I fed them to the full, yet they committed adulterie, and assembled them selues by companies in the harlots houses.
Jeremiah 5:8	They rose vp in the morning like fed horses: for euery man neyed after his neighbours wife.
Jeremiah 5:9	Shall I not visite for these things, saith the Lord? Shall not my soule be auenged on such a nation as this?
Jeremiah 5:10	Clime vp vpon their walles, and destroy them, but make not a full ende: take away their batilments, for they are not the Lords.
Jeremiah 5:11	For the house of Israel, and the house of Iudah haue grieuously trespassed against me, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 5:12	They haue denied the Lord, and saide, It is not he, neither shall the plague come vpon vs, neither shall we see sworde nor famine.
Jeremiah 5:13	And the Prophetes shall be as winde, and the worde is not in them: thus shall it come vnto them.
Jeremiah 5:14	Wherefore thus saith the Lord God of hostes, Because ye speake such wordes, beholde, I will put my wordes into thy mouth, like a fire, and this people shall be as wood, and it shall deuoure them.
Jeremiah 5:15	Loe, I will bring a nation vpon you from farre, O house of Israel, saith the Lord, which is a mightie nation, and an ancient nation, a nation whose language thou knowest not, neither vnderstandest what they say.
Jeremiah 5:16	Whose quiuer is as an open sepulchre: they are all very strong.
Jeremiah 5:17	And they shall eate thine haruest and thy bread: they shall deuoure thy sonnes and thy daughters: they shall eate vp thy sheepe and thy bullocks: they shall eate thy vines and thy figge trees: they shall destroy with the sworde thy fenced cities, wherein thou didest trust.
Jeremiah 5:18	Neuerthelesse at those dayes, sayth the Lord, I will not make a full ende of you.
Jeremiah 5:19	And when ye shall say, Wherefore doeth the Lord our God doe these things vnto vs? then shalt thou answere them, Like as ye haue forsaken me and serued strange gods in your land, so shall ye serue strangers in a land that is not yours.
Jeremiah 5:20	Declare this in the house of Iaakob, and publish it in Iudah, saying,
Jeremiah 5:21	Heare nowe this, O foolish people, and without vnderstanding, which haue eyes and see not, which haue eares and heare not.
Jeremiah 5:22	Feare ye not me, saith the Lord? or will ye not be afraide at my presence, which haue placed the sand for the bounds of the sea by the perpetuall decree that it cannot passe it, and though the waues thereof rage, yet can they not preuaile, though they roare, yet can they not passe ouer it?
Jeremiah 5:23	But this people hath an vnfaithfull and rebellious heart: they are departed and gone.
Jeremiah 5:24	For they say not in their heart, Let vs nowe feare the Lord our God, that giueth raine both early and late in due season: hee reserueth vnto vs the appointed weekes of the haruest.
Jeremiah 5:25	Yet your iniquities haue turned away these things, and your sinnes haue hindred good things from you.
Jeremiah 5:26	For among my people are founde wicked persons, that lay waite as hee that setteth snares: they haue made a pit, to catch men.
Jeremiah 5:27	As a cage is full of birdes, so are their houses full of deceite: thereby they are become great and waxen riche.
Jeremiah 5:28	They are waxen fat and shining: they doe ouerpasse the deedes of the wicked: they execute no iudgement, no not the iudgement of the fatherlesse: yet they prosper, though they execute no iudgement for the poore.
Jeremiah 5:29	Shall I not visite for these things, sayth the Lord? or shall not my soule be auenged on such a nation as this?
Jeremiah 5:30	An horrible and filthie thing is committed in the land.
Jeremiah 5:31	The Prophets prophesie lies, and ye Priests receiue giftes in their handes, and my people delite therein. What will ye then doe in the ende thereof?
Jeremiah 6:1	O ye children of Beniamin, prepare to flee out of the middes of Ierusalem, and blowe the trumpet in Tekoa: set vp a standart vpon Beth-haccerem: for a plague appeareth out of the North and great destruction.
Jeremiah 6:2	I haue compared the daughter of Zion to a beautifull and daintie woman.
Jeremiah 6:3	The pastors with their flockes shall come vnto her: they shall pitche their tentes rounde about by her, and euery one shall feede in his place.
Jeremiah 6:4	Prepare warre against her: arise, and let vs goe vp toward the South: wo vnto vs: for the day declineth, and the shadowes of the euening are stretched out.
Jeremiah 6:5	Arise, and let vs goe vp by night, and destroy her palaces.
Jeremiah 6:6	For thus hath the Lord of hostes said, Hewe downe wood, and cast a mounte against Ierusalem: this citie must be visited: all oppression is in the middes of it.
Jeremiah 6:7	As the fountaine casteth out her waters, so she casteth out her malice: crueltie and spoyle is continually heard in her before me with sorowe and strokes.
Jeremiah 6:8	Be thou instructed, O Ierusalem, lest my soule depart from thee, lest I make thee desolate as a land, that none inhabiteth.
Jeremiah 6:9	Thus sayeth the Lord of hostes, They shall gather as a vine, the residue of Israel: turne backe thine hande as the grape gatherer into the baskets.
Jeremiah 6:10	Vnto whome shall I speake, and admonish that they may heare? beholde, their eares are vncircumcised, and they cannot hearken: beholde, the worde of the Lord is vnto them as a reproche: they haue no delite in it.
Jeremiah 6:11	Therefore I am full of the wrath of the Lord: I am weary with holding it: I will powre it out vpon the children in the streete, and likewise vpon the assembly of the yong men: for the husband shall euen be taken with the wife, and the aged with him that is full of daies.
Jeremiah 6:12	And their houses with their landes, and wiues also shalbe turned vnto strangers: for I will stretch out mine hande vpon the inhabitants of the land, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 6:13	For from the least of them, euen vnto the greatest of them, euery one is giuen vnto couetousnesse, and from the Prophet euen vnto the Priest, they all deale falsely.
Jeremiah 6:14	They haue healed also ye hurt of the daughter of my people with sweete woordes, saying, Peace, peace, when there is no peace.
Jeremiah 6:15	Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not ashamed, no neither coulde they haue any shame: therefore they shall fall among the slaine: when I shall visite them, they shall be cast downe, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 6:16	Thus sayeth the Lord, Stande in the waies and beholde, and aske for the olde way, which is the good way and walke therein, and yee shall finde rest for your soules: but they saide, We will not walke therein.
Jeremiah 6:17	Also I set watchmen ouer you, which said, Take heede to the sound of the trumpet: but they said, We will not take heede.
Jeremiah 6:18	Heare therefore, yee Gentiles, and thou Congregation knowe, what is among them.
Jeremiah 6:19	Heare, O earth, beholde, I will cause a plague to come vpon this people, euen the fruite of their owne imaginations: because they haue not taken heede vnto my woordes, nor to my Lawe, but cast it off.
Jeremiah 6:20	To what purpose bringest thou mee incense from Sheba, and sweete calamus from a farre countrey? Your burnt offerings are not pleasant, nor your sacrifices sweete vnto me.
Jeremiah 6:21	Therefore thus sayeth the Lord, Beholde, I will laie stumbling blockes before this people, and the fathers and the sonnes together shall fall vpon them: the neighbour and his friende shall perish.
Jeremiah 6:22	Thus sayeth the Lord, Beholde, a people commeth from the North countrey, and a great nation shall arise from the sides of the earth.
Jeremiah 6:23	With bowe and shield shall they be weaponed: they are cruell and will haue no compassion: their voyce roareth like the sea, and they ride vpon horses, well appointed, like men of warre against thee, O daughter Zion.
Jeremiah 6:24	We haue heard their fame, and our handes waxe feeble sorrowe is come vpon vs, as the sorrowe of a woman in trauaile.
Jeremiah 6:25	Goe not foorth into the fielde, nor walke by the way: for the sword of the enemie and feare is on euery side.
Jeremiah 6:26	O daughter of my people, girde thee with sackecloth, and wallowe thy selfe in the ashes: make lamentation, and bitter mourning as for thine onely sonne: for the destroier shall suddenly come vpon vs.
Jeremiah 6:27	I haue set thee for a defence and fortresse among my people, that thou maiest knowe and trie their waies.
Jeremiah 6:28	They are all rebellious traitours, walking craftily: they are brasse, and yron, they all are destroyers.
Jeremiah 6:29	The bellowes are burnt: the lead is consumed in the fire: the founder melteth in vaine: for the wicked are not taken away.
Jeremiah 6:30	They shall call them reprobate siluer, because the Lord hath reiected them.
Jeremiah 7:1	The woordes that came to Ieremiah from the Lord, saying,
Jeremiah 7:2	Stand in the gate of the Lordes house and crie this woorde there, and say, Heare the woorde of the Lord, all yee of Iudah that enter in at these gates to worship the Lord.
Jeremiah 7:3	Thus sayeth the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Amend your waies and your woorkes, and I will let you dwell in this place.
Jeremiah 7:4	Trust not in lying woordes, saying, The Temple of the Lord, the Temple of the Lord: this is the Temple of the Lord.
Jeremiah 7:5	For if you amende and redresse your waies and your woorkes: if you execute iudgement betweene a man and his neighbour,
Jeremiah 7:6	And oppresse not the stranger, the fatherlesse and the widow and shed no innocent blood in this place, neither walke after other gods to your destruction,
Jeremiah 7:7	Then will I let you dwell in this place in the lande that I gaue vnto your fathers, for euer and euer.
Jeremiah 7:8	Beholde, you trust in lying woordes, that can not profite.
Jeremiah 7:9	Will you steale, murder, and commit adulterie, and sweare falsely and burne incense vnto Baal, and walke after other gods whome yee knowe not?
Jeremiah 7:10	And come and stande before mee in this House, whereupon my Name is called, and saye, We are deliuered, though we haue done all these abominations?
Jeremiah 7:11	Is this House become a denne of theeues, whereupon my Name is called before your eyes? Beholde, euen I see it, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 7:12	But go ye nowe vnto my place which was in Shilo, where I set my Name at the beginning, and beholde, what I did to it for the wickednesse of my people Israel.
Jeremiah 7:13	Therefore nowe because yee haue done all these woorkes, sayeth the Lord, (and I rose vp earely and spake vnto you: but when I spake, yee would not heare me, neither when I called, would yee answere).
Jeremiah 7:14	Therefore will I do vnto this House, wherupon my Name is called, wherein also yee trust, euen vnto the place that I gaue to you and to your fathers, as I haue done vnto Shilo.
Jeremiah 7:15	And I will cast you out of my sight, as I haue cast out all your brethren, euen the whole seede of Ephraim.
Jeremiah 7:16	Therfore thou shalt not pray for this people, neither lift vp crie or praier for them neither intreat me, for I will not heare thee.
Jeremiah 7:17	Seest thou not what they doe in the cities of Iudah and in the streetes of Ierusalem?
Jeremiah 7:18	The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the fire, and the women knede the dough to make cakes to the Queene of heauen and to powre out drinke offrings vnto other gods, that they may prouoke me vnto anger.
Jeremiah 7:19	Doe they prouoke me to anger, sayeth the Lord, and not themselues to the confusion of their owne faces?
Jeremiah 7:20	Therefore thus sayeth the Lord God, Beholde, mine anger and my wrath shall be powred vpon this place, vpon man and vpon beast, and vpon the tree of the fielde, and vpon the fruite of the grounde, and it shall burne and not bee quenched.
Jeremiah 7:21	Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Put your burnt offerings vnto your sacrifices, and eat the flesh.
Jeremiah 7:22	For I spake not vnto your fathers, nor commanded them, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning burnt offrings and sacrifices.
Jeremiah 7:23	But this thing commanded I them, saying, Obey my voyce, and I will be your God, and yee shalbe my people: and walke yee in all the wayes which I haue commanded you, that it may be well vnto you.
Jeremiah 7:24	But they would not obey, nor incline their eare, but went after the counsels and the stubbernesse of their wicked heart, and went backewarde and not forwarde.
Jeremiah 7:25	Since the day that your fathers came vp out of the lande of Egypt, vnto this day, I haue euen sent vnto you al my seruants the Prophets, rising vp earely euery day, and sending them.
Jeremiah 7:26	Yet would they not heare me nor encline their eare, but hardened their necke and did worse then their fathers.
Jeremiah 7:27	Therefore shalt thou speake al these words vnto them, but they will not heare thee: thou shalt also crie vnto them, but they will not answere thee.
Jeremiah 7:28	But thou shalt say vnto them, This is a nation that heareth not the voice of the Lord their God, nor receiueth discipline: trueth is perished, and is cleane gone out of their mouth.
Jeremiah 7:29	Cut off thine heare, O Ierusalem, and cast it away, and take vp a complaint on the hie places: for the Lord hath reiected and forsaken the generation of his wrath.
Jeremiah 7:30	For the children of Iudah haue done euill in my sight, sayth the Lord: they haue set their abominations in the House, whereupon my Name is called, to pollute it.
Jeremiah 7:31	And they haue built the hie place of Topheth, which is in the valley of Ben-Hinnom to burne their sonnes and their daughters in the fire, which I commanded them not, neither came it in mine heart.
Jeremiah 7:32	Therefore beholde, the dayes come, sayeth the Lord, that it shall no more be called Topheth, nor the valley of Ben-Hinnom, but the valley of slaughter: for they shall burie in Topheth til there be no place.
Jeremiah 7:33	And ye carkeises of this people shalbe meat for the foules of the heauen and for the beastes of the earth, and none shall fraie them away.
Jeremiah 7:34	Then I will cause to cease from the cities of Iudah and from the streetes of Ierusalem the voice of mirth and the voice of gladnesse, the voice of the bridegrom and the voice of the bride: for the lande shalbe desolate.
Jeremiah 8:1	At that time, sayeth the Lord, they shall bring out the bones of the Kings of Iudah, and the bones of their princes, and the bones of the Priests and the bones of the Prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Ierusalem out of their graues.
Jeremiah 8:2	And they shall spread them before the sunne and the moone, and all the host of heauen, whom they haue loued, and whome they haue serued, and whome they haue followed, and whome they haue sought, and whome they haue worshipped: they shall not be gathered nor be buried, but shall be as doung vpon the earth.
Jeremiah 8:3	And death shall bee desired rather then life of all the residue that remaineth of this wicked familie, which remaine in all the places where I haue scattered them, sayeth the Lord of hostes.
Jeremiah 8:4	Thou shalt say vnto them also, Thus sayeth the Lord, Shall they fall and not arise? shall he turne away and not turne againe?
Jeremiah 8:5	Wherefore is this people of Ierusalem turned backe by a perpetuall rebellion? they gaue themselues to deceit, and would not returne.
Jeremiah 8:6	I hearkened and heard, but none spake aright: no man repented him of his wickednesse, saying, What haue I done? euery one turned to their race, as the horse rusheth into the battell.
Jeremiah 8:7	Euen the storke in the aire knoweth her appointed times, and the turtle and the crane and the swallowe obserue the time of their comming, but my people knoweth not the iudgement of the Lord.
Jeremiah 8:8	Howe doe yee say, Wee are wise, and the Lawe of the Lord is with vs? Loe, certeinly in vaine made hee it, the penne of the scribes is in vaine.
Jeremiah 8:9	The wise men are ashamed: they are afraid and taken. loe, they haue reiected the word of the Lord, and what wisdome is in them?
Jeremiah 8:10	Therefore will I giue their wiues vnto others, and their fieldes to them that shall possesse them: for euery one from the least euen vnto the greatest is giuen to couetousnesse, and from the Prophet euen vnto the Priest, euery one dealeth falsely.
Jeremiah 8:11	For they haue healed the hurt of the daughter of my people with sweete woordes, saying, Peace, peace, when there is no peace.
Jeremiah 8:12	Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not ashamed, neither coulde they haue any shame: therefore shall they fall among the slaine: when I shall visite them, they shall be cast downe, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 8:13	I wil surely consume them, sayth the Lord: there shalbe no grapes on the vine, nor figges on the figtree, and the leafe shall fade, and the things that I haue giuen them, shall depart from them.
Jeremiah 8:14	Why doe we stay? assemble your selues, and let vs enter into the strong cities, and let vs be quiet there: for the Lord our God hath put vs to silence and giuen vs water with gall to drinke, because we haue sinned against the Lord.
Jeremiah 8:15	We looked for peace, but no good came, and for a time of health, and behold troubles.
Jeremiah 8:16	The neying of his horses was heard from Dan, the whole lande trembled at the noyse of the neying of his strong horses: for they are come, and haue deuoured the land with all that is in it, the citie, and those that dwell therein.
Jeremiah 8:17	For beholde, I will sende serpents, and cockatrices among you, which will not be charmed, and they shall sting you, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 8:18	I would haue comforted my selfe against sorowe, but mine heart is heauie in me.
Jeremiah 8:19	Behold, the voice of the cry of the daughter of my people for feare of them of a farre countrey, Is not the Lord in Zion? is not her king in her? Why haue they prouoked mee to anger with their grauen images, and with the vanities of a strange god?
Jeremiah 8:20	The haruest is past, the sommer is ended, and we are not holpen.
Jeremiah 8:21	I am sore vexed for the hurt of ye daughter of my people: I am heauie, and astonishment hath taken me.
Jeremiah 8:22	Is there no balme at Gilead? is there no Physition there? Why then is not the health of the daughter of my people recouered.
Jeremiah 9:1	Oh, that mine head were full of water and mine eyes a fountaine of teares, that I might weepe day and night for the slayne of the daughter of my people.
Jeremiah 9:2	Oh, that I had in the wildernes a cottage of wayfaring men, that I might leaue my people, and go from them: for they be all adulterers and an assembly of rebels,
Jeremiah 9:3	And they bende their tongues like their bowes for lyes: but they haue no courage for the trueth vpon the earth: for they proceede from euill to worse, and they haue not knowen mee, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 9:4	Let euery one take heede of his neighbour, and trust you not in any brother: for euery brother will vse deceite, and euery friend will deale deceitfully,
Jeremiah 9:5	And euery one wil deceiue his friende, and wil not speake the trueth: for they haue taught their tongues to speake lies, and take great paynes to do wickedly.
Jeremiah 9:6	Thine habitation is in the middes of deceiuers: because of their deceit they refuse to know me, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 9:7	Therefore thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Behold, I wil melt them, and trie them: for what should I els do for the daughter of my people?
Jeremiah 9:8	Their tongue is as an arow shot out, and speaketh deceite: one speaketh peaceably to his neighbour with his mouth, but in his heart hee layeth waite for him.
Jeremiah 9:9	Shal I not visit them for these things, saith the Lord? or shall not my soule be auenged on such a nation as this?
Jeremiah 9:10	Vpon the mountaines will I take vp a weeping and a lamentation, and vpon the fayre places of the wildernes a mourning, because they are burnt vp: so that none can passe through them, neyther can men heare the voyce of the flocke: both the foule of the aire, and the beast are fled away and gone.
Jeremiah 9:11	And I wil make Ierusalem an heape, and a den of dragons, and I will make the cities of Iudah waste, without an inhabitant.
Jeremiah 9:12	Who is wise, to vnderstande this? and to whome the mouth of the Lord hath spoken, euen he shall declare it. Why doth the land perish, and is burnt vp like a wildernesse, that none passeth through?
Jeremiah 9:13	And the Lord sayeth, Because they haue forsaken my Lawe, which I set before them, and haue not obeyed my voice, neither walked thereafter,
Jeremiah 9:14	But haue walked after the stubbernesse of their owne heart, and after Baalims, which their fathers taught them,
Jeremiah 9:15	Therefore thus sayth the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Behold, I will feede this people with wormewood, and giue them waters of gall to drinke:
Jeremiah 9:16	I wil scatter them also among the heathen, whom neither they nor their fathers haue knowen, and I will send a sworde after them, til I haue consumed them.
Jeremiah 9:17	Thus sayeth the Lord of hostes, Take heede, and call for the mourning women, that they may come, and send for skilfull women that they may come,
Jeremiah 9:18	And let them make haste, and let them take vp a lamentation for vs, that our eyes may cast out teares and our eye liddes gush out of water.
Jeremiah 9:19	For a lamentable noyse is heard out of Zion, Howe are we destroyed, and vtterly confounded, for we haue forsaken the land, and our dwellings haue cast vs out.
Jeremiah 9:20	Therefore heare the worde of the Lord, O ye women, and let your eares regard the words of his mouth, and teach your daughters to mourne, and euery one her neighbour to lament.
Jeremiah 9:21	For death is come vp into our windowes, and is entred into our palaces, to destroy the children without, and the yong men in the streetes.
Jeremiah 9:22	Speake, thus sayth the Lord, The carkeises of men shall lye, euen as the doung vpon the fielde, and as the handfull after the mower, and none shall gather them.
Jeremiah 9:23	Thus saith the Lord, Let not the wise man glory in his wisedome, nor the strong man glorie in his strength, neyther the riche man glorie in his riches.
Jeremiah 9:24	But let him that glorieth, glorie in this, that he vnderstandeth, and knoweth me: for I am the Lord, which shewe mercie, iudgement, and righteousnes in the earth: for in these things I delite, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 9:25	Beholde, the dayes come, sayth the Lord, that I wil visite all them, which are circumcised with the vncircumcised:
Jeremiah 9:26	Egypt and Iudah, and Edom, and the children of Ammon, and Moab, and all the vtmost corners of them that dwell in the wildernesse: for all these nations are vncircumcised, and al the house of Israel are vncircumcised in the heart.
Jeremiah 10:1	Heare ye the worde of the Lord that he speaketh vnto you, O house of Israel.
Jeremiah 10:2	Thus saith the Lord, Learne not the way of the heathen, and be not afraid for the signes of heauen, though the heathen be afraid of such.
Jeremiah 10:3	For the customes of the people are vaine: for one cutteth a tree out of the forest (which is the worke of the handes of the carpenter) with the axe,
Jeremiah 10:4	And another decketh it with siluer, and with golde: they fasten it with nailes, and hammers, that it fall not.
Jeremiah 10:5	The idoles stande vp as the palme tree, but speake not: they are borne because they cannot go feare them not, for they cannot do euill, neither can they do good.
Jeremiah 10:6	There is none like vnto thee, O Lord: thou art great, and thy name is great in power.
Jeremiah 10:7	Who would not feare thee, O King of nations? for to thee appertaineth the dominion: for among all the wise men of the Gentiles, and in al their kingdomes there is none like thee.
Jeremiah 10:8	But, altogether they dote, and are foolish: for the stocke is a doctrine of vanitie.
Jeremiah 10:9	Siluer plates are brought from Tarshish, and golde from Vphaz, for the worke of the workeman, and the handes of the founder: the blewe silke, and the purple is their clothing: all these things are made by cunning men.
Jeremiah 10:10	But the Lord is the God of trueth: he is the liuing God, and an euerlasting King: at his anger the earth shall tremble, and the nations cannot abide his wrath.
Jeremiah 10:11	(Thus shall you say vnto them, The gods that haue not made the heauens and the earth, shall perish from the earth, and from vnder these heauens)
Jeremiah 10:12	He hath made the earth by his power, and established the worlde by his wisedome, and hath stretched out the heauen by his discretion.
Jeremiah 10:13	Hee giueth by his voyce the multitude of waters in the heauen, and he causeth the cloudes to ascend from the endes of the earth: he turneth lightnings to rayne, and bringeth forth the winde out of his treasures.
Jeremiah 10:14	Euery man is a beast by his owne knowledge: euery founder is confounded by the grauen image: for his melting is but falsehood, and there is no breath therein.
Jeremiah 10:15	They are vanitie, and the worke of errours: in the time of their visitation they shall perish.
Jeremiah 10:16	The portion of Iaakob is not like them: for he is the maker of all things, and Israel is the rodde of his inheritance: the Lord of hostes is his Name.
Jeremiah 10:17	Gather vp thy wares out of the land, O thou that dwellest in the strong place.
Jeremiah 10:18	For thus sayth the Lord, Beholde, at this time I will throwe as with a sling the inhabitants of the lande, and will trouble them, and they shall finde it so.
Jeremiah 10:19	Wo is me for my destruction, and my grieuous plague: but I thought, Yet it is my sorow, and I will beare it.
Jeremiah 10:20	My tabernacle is destroyed, and all my coardes are broken: my children are gone from me, and are not: there is none to spread out my tent any more, and to set vp my curtaines.
Jeremiah 10:21	For the Pastours are become beasts, and haue not sought the Lord: therefore haue they none vnderstanding: and all the flockes of their pastures are scattered.
Jeremiah 10:22	Beholde, the noyse of the brute is come, and a great commotion out of the North countrey to make the cities of Iudah desolate, and a denne of dragons.
Jeremiah 10:23	O Lord, I knowe, that the way of man is not in himselfe, neyther is it in man to walke and to direct his steps.
Jeremiah 10:24	O Lord, correct mee, but with iudgement, not in thine anger, least thou bring mee to nothing.
Jeremiah 10:25	Powre out thy wrath vpon the heathen, that knowe thee not, and vpon the families that call not on thy Name: for they haue eaten vp Iaakob and deuoured him and consumed him, and haue made his habitation desolate.
Jeremiah 11:1	The worde that came to Ieremiah from the Lord, saying,
Jeremiah 11:2	Heare ye the wordes of this couenant, and speake vnto the men of Iudah, and to the inhabitants of Ierusalem,
Jeremiah 11:3	And say thou vnto them, Thus sayeth the Lord God of Israel, Cursed be the man that obeyeth not the wordes of this couenant,
Jeremiah 11:4	Which I commanded vnto your fathers, when I brought them out of the lande of Egypt, from the yron fornace, saying, Obey my voyce, and doe according to all these things, which I commande you: so shall ye be my people, and I will be your God,
Jeremiah 11:5	That I may confirme the othe, that I haue sworne vnto your fathers, to giue them a lande, which floweth with milke and hony, as appeareth this day. Then answered I and sayde, So be it, O Lord.
Jeremiah 11:6	Then the Lord saide vnto me, Cry all these words in the cities of Iudah, and in the streetes of Ierusalem, saying, Heare yee the words of this couenant, and doe them.
Jeremiah 11:7	For I haue protested vnto your fathers, whe I brought them vp out of the land of Egypt vnto this day, rising earely and protesting, saying, Obey my voyce.
Jeremiah 11:8	Neuerthelesse they would not obey, nor encline their eare: but euery one walked in the stubbernesse of his wicked heart: therefore I will bring vpon them all the wordes of this couenant, which I commanded them to do, but they did it not.
Jeremiah 11:9	And the Lord sayd vnto me, A conspiracie is found among the men of Iudah, and among the inhabitants of Ierusalem.
Jeremiah 11:10	They are turned backe to the iniquities of their forefathers, which refused to heare my wordes: and they went after other gods to serue them: thus the house of Israel, and the house of Iudah haue broken my couenant, which I made with their fathers.
Jeremiah 11:11	Therefore thus sayth the Lord, Beholde, I will bring a plague vpon them, which they shall not be able to escape, and though they crye vnto me, I will not heare them.
Jeremiah 11:12	Then shall the cities of Iudah, and the inhabitants of Ierusalem goe, and crie vnto the gods vnto whome they offer incense, but they shall not bee able to helpe them in time of their trouble.
Jeremiah 11:13	For according to the number of thy cities were thy gods, O Iudah, and according to the number of the streetes of Ierusalem haue yee set vp altars of confusion, euen altars to burne incense vnto Baal.
Jeremiah 11:14	Therfore thou shalt not pray for this people, neither lift vp a crie, or prayer for them: for when they cry vnto mee in their trouble, I will not heare them.
Jeremiah 11:15	What shoulde my beloued tarie in mine house, seeing they haue committed abomination with manie? and the holy flesh goeth away from thee: yet when thou doest euill, thou reioycest.
Jeremiah 11:16	The Lord called thy name, A greene oliue tree, faire, and of goodly fruite: but with noyse and great tumult he hath set fyre vpon it, and the branches of it are broken.
Jeremiah 11:17	For the Lord of hostes that planted thee, hath pronounced a plague against thee, for the wickednes of the house of Israel, and of the house of Iudah, which they haue done against themselues to prouoke me to anger in offering incense vnto Baal.
Jeremiah 11:18	And the Lord hath taught me, and I knowe it, euen then thou shewedst mee their practises.
Jeremiah 11:19	But I was like a lambe, or a bullocke, that is brought to the slaughter, and I knewe not that they had deuised thus against me, saying, Let vs destroy the tree with the fruite thereof, and cut him out of the lande of the liuing, that his name may be no more in memory.
Jeremiah 11:20	But O Lord of hostes, that iudgest righteously, and triest the reines and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them: for vnto thee haue I opened my cause.
Jeremiah 11:21	The Lord therefore speaketh thus of the men of Anathoth, (that seeke thy life, and say, Prophecie not in the Name of the Lord, that thou die not by our hands)
Jeremiah 11:22	Thus therefore sayth the Lord of hostes, Beholde, I will visite them: the yong men shall die by the sword: their sonnes and their daughters shall die by famine,
Jeremiah 11:23	And none of them shall remaine: for I will bring a plague vpon the men of Anathoth, euen the yeere of their visitation.
Jeremiah 12:1	O Lord, if I dispute with thee, thou art righteous: yet let mee talke with thee of thy iudgements: wherefore doeth the way of the wicked prosper? why are all they in wealth that rebelliously transgresse?
Jeremiah 12:2	Thou hast planted them, and they haue taken roote: they grow, and bring forth fruite: thou art neere in their mouth, and farre from their reines.
Jeremiah 12:3	But thou, Lord, knowest me: thou hast seene me, and tried mine heart towarde thee: pull them out like sheepe for the slaughter, and prepare them for the day of slaughter.
Jeremiah 12:4	Howe long shall the lande mourne, and the herbes of euery fielde wither, for the wickednesse of them that dwell therein? the beastes are consumed and the birdes, because they sayd, He wil not see our last ende.
Jeremiah 12:5	If thou hast runne with the footemen and they haue wearied thee, then howe canst thou match thy selfe with horses? and if thou thoughtest thy selfe safe in a peaceable lande, what wilt thou do in the swelling of Iorden?
Jeremiah 12:6	For euen thy brethren, and the house of thy father, euen they haue delt vnfaithfully with thee, and they haue cryed out altogether vpon thee: but beleeue them not, though they speake faire to thee.
Jeremiah 12:7	I haue forsaken mine house: I haue left mine heritage: I haue giuen the dearely beloued of my soule into the hands of her enemies.
Jeremiah 12:8	Mine heritage is vnto mee, as a lion in the forest: it crieth out against mee, therefore haue I hated it.
Jeremiah 12:9	Shall mine heritage bee vnto mee, as a bird of diuers colours? are not the birdes about her, saying, Come, assemble all ye beastes of the fielde, come to eate her?
Jeremiah 12:10	Many pastors haue destroyed my vineyarde, and troden my portion vnder foote: of my pleasant portion they haue made a desolate wildernesse.
Jeremiah 12:11	They haue layde it waste, and it, being waste, mourneth vnto me: and the whole lande lyeth waste, because no man setteth his minde on it.
Jeremiah 12:12	The destroyers are come vpon all the high places in the wildernesse: for the sworde of the Lord shall deuoure from the one end of the land, euen to the other ende of the lande: no flesh shall haue peace.
Jeremiah 12:13	They haue sowen wheate, and reaped thornes: they were sicke, and had no profite: and they were ashamed of your fruites, because of the fierce wrath of the Lord.
Jeremiah 12:14	Thus sayeth the Lord against all mine euill neighbours, that touch the inheritance, which I haue caused my people Israel to inherite, Beholde, I will plucke them out of their lande, and plucke out the house of Iudah from among them.
Jeremiah 12:15	And after that I haue plucked them out, I will returne, and haue compassion on them, and will bring againe euery man to his heritage, and euery man to his land.
Jeremiah 12:16	And if they will learne the wayes of my people, to sweare by my Name, (The Lord liueth, as they taught my people to sweare by Baal) then shall they be built in the middes of my people.
Jeremiah 12:17	But if they will not obey, then will I vtterly plucke vp, and destroy that nation, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 13:1	Thus sayth the Lord vnto mee, Goe, and buy thee a linen girdle, and put it vpon thy loynes, and put it not in water.
Jeremiah 13:2	So I bought the girdle according to the commandement of the Lord, and put it vpon my loynes.
Jeremiah 13:3	And the worde of the Lord came vnto me the second time, saying,
Jeremiah 13:4	Take the girdle that thou hast bought, which is vpon thy loynes, and arise, goe towarde Perath, and hide it there in the cleft of the rocke.
Jeremiah 13:5	So I went, and hid it by Perath, as the Lord had commanded me.
Jeremiah 13:6	And after many dayes, the Lord sayde vnto mee, Arise, goe towarde Perath, and take the girdle from thence, which I commanded thee to hide there.
Jeremiah 13:7	Then went I to Perath, and digged, and tooke the girdle from the place where I had hid it, and behold, the girdle was corrupt, and was profitable for nothing.
Jeremiah 13:8	Then the word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Jeremiah 13:9	Thus sayth the Lord, After this maner will I destroy the pride of Iudah, and the great pride of Ierusalem.
Jeremiah 13:10	This wicked people haue refused to heare my word, and walke after ye stubbernesse of their owne heart, and walke after other gods to serue them, and to worship them: therefore they shalbe as this girdle, which is profitable to nothing.
Jeremiah 13:11	For as the girdle cleaueth to the loynes of a man, so haue I tied to me the whole house of Israel, and the whole house of Iudah, saith the Lord, that they might bee my people: that they might haue a name and prayse, and glory, but they would not heare.
Jeremiah 13:12	Therefore thou shalt saye vnto them this word, Thus sayth the Lord God of Israel, Euery bottell shalbe filled with wine, and they shall say vnto thee, Doe we not knowe that euery bottell shalbe filled with wine?
Jeremiah 13:13	Then shalt thou say vnto them, Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land, euen the Kings that sit vpon the throne of Dauid, and the Priestes and the Prophets and all the inhabitantes of Ierusalem with drunkennesse.
Jeremiah 13:14	And I wil dash them one against another, euen the fathers and the sonnes together, sayeth the Lord: I will not spare, I will not pitie nor haue compassion, but destroy them.
Jeremiah 13:15	Heare and giue eare, be not proude: for the Lord hath spoken it.
Jeremiah 13:16	Giue glory to the Lord your God before he bring darknes, and or euer your feete stumble in the darke mountaines, and whiles you look for light, he turne it into the shadowe of death and make it as darkenesse.
Jeremiah 13:17	But if ye will not heare this, my soule shall weepe in secrete for your pride, and mine eye shall weepe and drop downe teares, because the Lords flocke is caried away captiue.
Jeremiah 13:18	Say vnto the King and to the Queene, Humble yourselues, sit downe, for the crowne of your glory shall come downe from your heads.
Jeremiah 13:19	The cities of the South shall be shut vp, and no man shall open them: all Iudah shall be caried away captiue: it shall be wholy caried away captiue.
Jeremiah 13:20	Lift vp your eyes and beholde them that come from the North: where is the flocke that was giuen thee, euen thy beautifull flocke?
Jeremiah 13:21	What wilt thou saye, when hee shall visite thee? (for thou hast taught them to be captaines and as chiefe ouer thee) shall not sorow take thee as a woman in trauaile?
Jeremiah 13:22	And if thou say in thine heart, Wherefore come these things vpon me? For the multitude of thine iniquities are thy skirts discouered and thy heeles made bare.
Jeremiah 13:23	Can the blacke More change his skin? or the leopard his spots? then may ye also do good, that are accustomed to do euill.
Jeremiah 13:24	Therefore will I scatter them, as the stubble that is taken away with the South winde.
Jeremiah 13:25	This is thy portion, and ye part of thy measures from me, sayth the Lord, because thou hast forgotten me and trusted in lyes.
Jeremiah 13:26	Therefore I haue also discouered thy skirts vpon thy face, that thy shame may appeare.
Jeremiah 13:27	I haue seene thine adulteries, and thy neiings, the filthinesse of thy whoredome on the hils in the fieldes, and thine abominations. Wo vnto thee, O Ierusalem: wilt thou not bee made cleane? when shall it once be?
Jeremiah 14:1	The worde of the Lord that came vnto Ieremiah, concerning the dearth.
Jeremiah 14:2	Iudah hath mourned, and the gates thereof are desolate, they haue bene brought to heauinesse vnto the grounde, and the cry of Ierusalem goeth vp.
Jeremiah 14:3	And their nobles haue sent their inferiours to the water, who came to the welles, and founde no water: they returned with their vessels empty: they were ashamed and confounded, and couered their heads.
Jeremiah 14:4	For the grounde was destroyed, because there was no rayne in the earth: the plowmen were ashamed, and couered their heads.
Jeremiah 14:5	Yea, the hinde also calued in the fielde, and forsooke it, because there was no grasse.
Jeremiah 14:6	And the wilde asses did stande in the hygh places, and drew in their winde like dragons their eyes did faile, because there was no grasse.
Jeremiah 14:7	O Lord, though our iniquities testifie against vs, deale with vs according to thy name: for our rebellions are many, we sinned against thee.
Jeremiah 14:8	O the hope of Israel, the sauiour thereof in the time of trouble, why art thou as a strager in ye land, as one that passeth by to tary for a night?
Jeremiah 14:9	Why art thou as a man astonied, and as a strong man that cannot helpe? yet thou, O Lord, art in the middes of vs, and thy Name is called vpon vs: forsake vs not.
Jeremiah 14:10	Thus saith the Lord vnto this people, Thus haue they delited to wander: they haue not refrained their feete, therefore the Lord hath no delight in them: but he will now remember their iniquitie, and visite their sinnes.
Jeremiah 14:11	Then sayd the Lord vnto me, Thou shalt not pray to do this people good.
Jeremiah 14:12	When they fast, I will not heare their cry, and when they offer burnt offering, and an oblation, I will not accept them: but I will consume them by the sworde, and by the famine and by the pestilence.
Jeremiah 14:13	Then answered I, Ah Lord God, beholde, the prophets say vnto them, Ye shall not see the sworde, neither shall famine come vpon you, but I wil giue you assured peace in this place.
Jeremiah 14:14	Then the Lord said vnto me, The prophets prophecie lyes in my Name: I haue not sent them, neither did I command them, neither spake I vnto them, but they prophecie vnto you a false vision, and diuination, and vanitie, and deceitfulnes of their owne heart.
Jeremiah 14:15	Therefore thus saith the Lord, Concerning the prophets that prophecie in my Name, whom I haue not sent, yet they say, Sworde and famine shall not be in this land, by sword and famine shall those prophets be consumed.
Jeremiah 14:16	And the people to whome these prophets doe prophecie, shalbe cast out in the streetes of Ierusalem, because of the famine, and the sword, and there shall be none to bury them, both they, and their wiues, and their sonnes, and their daughters: for I wil powre their wickednes vpon them.
Jeremiah 14:17	Therefore thou shalt say this worde vnto them, Let mine eyes drop downe teares night and day without ceasing: for the virgine daughter of my people is destroyed with a great destruction, and with a sore grieuous plague.
Jeremiah 14:18	For if I go into the field, behold the slaine with the sworde: and if I enter into the citie, behold them that are sicke for hunger also: moreouer the Prophet also and the Priest go a wandring into a land that they know not.
Jeremiah 14:19	Hast thou vtterly reiected Iudah, or hath thy soule abhorred Zion? why hast thou smitten vs, that we cannot be healed? Wee looked for peace, and there is no good, and for the time of health, and behold trouble.
Jeremiah 14:20	We acknowledge, O Lord, our wickednesse and the iniquitie of our fathers: for we haue sinned against thee.
Jeremiah 14:21	Doe not abhorre vs: for thy Names sake cast not downe the throne of thy glory: remember and breake not thy couenant with vs.
Jeremiah 14:22	Are there any among the vanities of the Gentiles, that can giue raine? or can the heauens giue showres? is it not thou, O Lord our God? therefore we will waite vpon thee: for thou hast made all these things.
Jeremiah 15:1	Then sayde the Lord vnto me, Though Moses and Samuel stoode before mee, yet mine affection coulde not be toward this people: cast them out of my sight, and let them depart.
Jeremiah 15:2	And if they say vnto thee, Whither shall we depart? then tell them, Thus saith the Lord, Such as are appointed to death, vnto death: and such as are for the sworde, to the sworde: and such as are for the famine, to the famine: and such as are for the captiuitie, to the captiuitie.
Jeremiah 15:3	And I wil appoint ouer them foure kindes, sayth the Lord, the sworde to slay, and the dogs to teare in pieces, and the soules of the heauen, and the beastes of the earth to deuoure, and to destroy.
Jeremiah 15:4	I will scatter them also in all kingdomes of the earth, because of Manasseh the sonne of Hezekiah King of Iudah, for that which he did in Ierusalem.
Jeremiah 15:5	Who shall then haue pitie vpon thee, O Ierusalem? or who shalbe sorie for thee? or who shall go to pray for thy peace?
Jeremiah 15:6	Thou hast forsaken me, sayth the Lord, and gone backward: therefore wil I stretch out mine hand against thee, and destroy thee: for I am weary with repenting.
Jeremiah 15:7	And I wil scatter them with the fanne in the gates of the earth I haue wasted, and destroyed my people, yet they would not returne from their wayes.
Jeremiah 15:8	Their widdowes are increased by mee aboue the sande of the sea: I haue brought vpon them, and against the assembly of the yong men a destroyer at noone day: I haue caused him to fal vpon them, and the citie suddenly, and speedily.
Jeremiah 15:9	Shee that hath borne seuen, hath bene made weake: her heart hath failed: the sunne hath failed her, whiles it was day: she hath bene confounded, and ashamed, and the residue of them will I deliuer vnto the sworde before their enemies, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 15:10	Wo is mee, my mother, that thou hast borne mee, a contentious man, and a man that striueth with the whole earth I haue neither lent on vsury, nor men haue lent vnto me on vsurie: yet euery one doeth curse me.
Jeremiah 15:11	The Lord sayd, Surely thy remnant shall haue wealth: surely I will cause thine enemie to intreate thee in the time of trouble, and in the time of affliction.
Jeremiah 15:12	Shall the yron breake the yron, and the brasse that commeth from the North?
Jeremiah 15:13	Thy substance and thy treasures wil I giue to be spoyled without gaine, and that for all thy sinnes euen in all thy borders.
Jeremiah 15:14	And I wil make thee to go with thine enemies into a land that thou knowest not: for a fire is kindled in mine anger, which shall burne you.
Jeremiah 15:15	O Lord, thou knowest, remember me, and visite me, and reuenge me of my persecuters: take mee not away in the continuance of thine anger: know that for thy sake I haue suffered rebuke.
Jeremiah 15:16	Thy wordes were founde by me, and I did eate them, and thy worde was vnto me the ioy and reioycing of mine heart: for thy Name is called vpon me, O Lord God of hostes.
Jeremiah 15:17	I sate not in the assembly of the mockers, neither did I reioyce, but sate alone because of thy plague: for thou hast filled me with indignation.
Jeremiah 15:18	Why is mine heauines continuall? and my plague desperate and cannot be healed? why art thou vnto me as a lyar, and as waters that faile?
Jeremiah 15:19	Therefore thus saith the Lord, If thou returne, then wil I bring thee againe, and thou shalt stand before me: and if thou take away the precious from the vile, thou shalt be according to my worde: let them returne vnto thee, but returne not thou vnto them.
Jeremiah 15:20	And I will make thee vnto this people a strong brasen wall, and they shall fight against thee, but they shall not preuaile against thee: for I am with thee to saue thee and to deliuer thee, saith ye Lord.
Jeremiah 15:21	And I will deliuer thee out of the hand of the wicked, and I will redeeme thee out of the hand of the tyrants.
Jeremiah 16:1	The worde of the Lord came also vnto mee, saying,
Jeremiah 16:2	Thou shalt not take thee a wife, nor haue sonnes nor daughters in this place.
Jeremiah 16:3	For thus sayeth the Lord concerning the sonnes, and concerning the daughters that are borne in this place, and concerning their mothers that beare them, and concerning their fathers, that beget them in this land,
Jeremiah 16:4	They shall die of deathes and diseases: they shall not be lamented, neither shall they be buried, but they shalbe as dung vpon the earth, and they shalbe consumed by the sword, and by famine, and their carkeises shall be meate for the foules of the heauen, and for the beasts of the earth.
Jeremiah 16:5	For thus saith the Lord, Enter not into the house of mourning, neither goe to lament, nor be moued for the: for I haue taken my peace, from this people, saith the Lord, euen mercy and compassion.
Jeremiah 16:6	Both the great, and the small shall die in this land: they shall not be buried, neither shall men lament for them nor cut themselues, nor make themselues balde for them.
Jeremiah 16:7	They shall not stretch out the hands for the in the mourning to comfort them for the dead, neither shall they giue them the cup of consolation to drinke for their father or for their mother.
Jeremiah 16:8	Thou shalt not also goe into the house of feasting to sit with them to eate and to drinke.
Jeremiah 16:9	For thus sayth the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Beholde, I wil cause to cease out of this place in your eyes, euen in your dayes the voyce of myrth, and the voyce of gladnes, the voyce of the bridegrome and the voyce of the bride.
Jeremiah 16:10	And when thou shalt shewe this people all these wordes, and they shall say vnto thee, Wherefore hath the Lord pronounced all this great plague against vs? or what is our iniquitie? and what is our sinne that we haue committed against the Lord our God?
Jeremiah 16:11	Then shalt thou say vnto them, Because your fathers haue forsaken me, sayth the Lord, and haue walked after other gods, and haue serued them, and worshipped them, and haue forsaken me, and haue not kept my Law,
Jeremiah 16:12	(And ye haue done worse then your fathers: for beholde, you walke euery one after the stubbernesse of his wicked heart, and will not heare me)
Jeremiah 16:13	Therefore will I driue you out of this land into a lande that ye knowe not, neither you, nor your fathers, and there shall ye serue other gods day and night: for I will shew you no grace.
Jeremiah 16:14	Behold therfore, saith the Lord, the dayes come that it shall no more be sayde, The Lord liueth, which brought vp the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt,
Jeremiah 16:15	But the Lord liueth, that brought vp the children of Israel from the lande of the North, and from all the landes where hee had scattered them, and I wil bring them againe into their land that I gaue vnto their fathers.
Jeremiah 16:16	Behold, sayth the Lord, I wil send out many fishers, and they shall fish them, and after, will I send out many hunters, and they shall hunt them from euery mountaine and from euery hill, and out of the caues of the rockes.
Jeremiah 16:17	For mine eyes are vpon al their wayes: they are not hid from my face, neither is their iniquitie hid from mine eyes.
Jeremiah 16:18	And first I will recompense their iniquitie and their sinne double, because they haue defiled my lande, and haue filled mine inheritance with their filthie carions and their abominations.
Jeremiah 16:19	O Lord, thou art my force, and my strength and my refuge in the day of affliction: the Gentiles shall come vnto thee from the ends of the world, and shall say, Surely our fathers haue inherited lies, and vanitie, wherein was no profite.
Jeremiah 16:20	Shall a man make gods vnto himselfe, and they are no gods?
Jeremiah 16:21	Beholde, therefore I will this once teach them: I will shewe them mine hande and my power, and they shall know that my Name is the Lord.
Jeremiah 17:1	The sinne of Iudah is written with a pen of yron, and with the poynt of a diamonde, and grauen vpon the table of their heart, and vpon the hornes of your altars.
Jeremiah 17:2	They remember their altars as their children, with their groues by the greene trees vpon the hilles.
Jeremiah 17:3	O my mountaine in the fielde, I will giue thy substance, and all thy treasures to be spoyled, for the sinne of thy high places throughout all thy borders.
Jeremiah 17:4	And thou shalt rest, and in thee shall be a rest from thine heritage that I gaue thee, and I will cause thee to serue thine enemies in the land, which thou knowest not: for yee haue kindled a fire in mine anger, which shall burne for euer.
Jeremiah 17:5	Thus saith the Lord, Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, and maketh flesh his arme, and withdraweth his heart from the Lord.
Jeremiah 17:6	For he shall be like the heath in the wildernesse, and shall not see when any good commeth, but shall inhabite the parched places in the wildernesse, in a salt land, and not inhabited.
Jeremiah 17:7	Blessed be the man, that trusteth in ye Lord, and whose hope the Lord is.
Jeremiah 17:8	For he shall be as a tree that is planted by the water, which spreadeth out her rootes by the riuer, and shall not feele when the heate commeth, but her leafe shall be greene, and shall not care for the yeere of drought, neyther shall cease from yeelding fruit.
Jeremiah 17:9	The heart is deceitfull and wicked aboue all things, who can knowe it?
Jeremiah 17:10	I the Lord search the heart, and try ye reines, euen to giue euery man according to his wayes, and according to the fruite of his workes.
Jeremiah 17:11	As the partryche gathereth the yong, which she hath not brought forth: so he that getteth riches, and not by right, shall leaue them in the middes of his dayes, and at his ende shall bee a foole.
Jeremiah 17:12	As a glorious throne exalted from the beginning, so is the place of our Sanctuarie.
Jeremiah 17:13	O Lord, the hope of Israel, all that forsake thee, shall be confounded: they that depart from thee, shalbe written in the earth, because they haue forsaken the Lord, the fountaine of liuing waters.
Jeremiah 17:14	Heale me, O Lord, and I shall bee whole: saue me, and I shall bee saued: for thou art my prayse.
Jeremiah 17:15	Behold, they say vnto me, Where is the word of the Lord? let it come nowe.
Jeremiah 17:16	But I haue not thrust in my selfe for a pastour after thee, neither haue I desired the day of miserie, thou knowest: that which came out of my lips, was right before thee.
Jeremiah 17:17	Be not terrible vnto mee: thou art mine hope in the day of aduersitie.
Jeremiah 17:18	Let them bee confounded, that persecute me, but let not me be confounded: let them be afraide, but let not me be afraide: bring vpon them the day of aduersitie, and destroy them with double destruction.
Jeremiah 17:19	Thus hath the Lord said vnto me, Goe and stande in the gate of the children of the people, whereby the Kings of Iudah come in, and by the which they goe out, and in all ye gates of Ierusalem,
Jeremiah 17:20	And say vnto them, Heare the word of the Lord, ye Kings of Iudah, and al Iudah, and all the inhabitants of Ierusale, that enter in by these gates.
Jeremiah 17:21	Thus sayth the Lord, Take heede to your soules, and beare no burden in the Sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of Ierusalem.
Jeremiah 17:22	Neither cary foorth burdens out of your houses in the Sabbath day: neither doe yee any worke, but sanctifie the Sabbath, as I commanded your fathers.
Jeremiah 17:23	But they obeied not, neither inclined their eares, but made their neckes stiffe and would not heare, nor receiue correction.
Jeremiah 17:24	Neuerthelesse if ye will heare me, sayth the Lord, and beare no burden through the gates of the citie in the Sabbath day, but sanctifie ye Sabbath day, so that ye do no worke therein,
Jeremiah 17:25	Then shall the Kings and the princes enter in at the gates of this citie, and shall sit vpon the throne of Dauid, and shall ride vpon charets, and vpon horses, both they and their princes, the men of Iudah, and the inhabitants of Ierusalem: and this citie shall remaine for euer.
Jeremiah 17:26	And they shall come from the cities of Iudah, and from about Ierusalem, and from the land of Beniamin, and from the plaine, and from the mountaines, and from the South, which shall bring burnt offrings, and sacrifices, and meate offrings, and incense, and shall bring sacrifice of prayse into the house of the Lord.
Jeremiah 17:27	But if ye will not heare me to sanctifie the Sabbath day, and not to beare a burden nor to go through the gates of Ierusalem in the Sabbath day, then will I kindle a fire in the gates thereof, and it shall deuoure the palaces of Ierusalem, and it shall not be quenched.
Jeremiah 18:1	The worde which came to Ieremiah from the Lord, saying,
Jeremiah 18:2	Arise, and go downe into the potters house, and there shall I shewe thee my words.
Jeremiah 18:3	Then I went downe to the potters house, and behold, he wrought a worke on the wheeles.
Jeremiah 18:4	And the vessell that he made of clay, was broken in the hand of the potter. so he returned, and made it another vessel, as seemed good to the potter to make it.
Jeremiah 18:5	Then the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Jeremiah 18:6	O house of Israel, cannot I doe with you as this potter, sayth the Lord? beholde, as the clay is in the potters hande, so are you in mine hande, O house of Israel.
Jeremiah 18:7	I will speake suddenly against a nation or against a kingdome to plucke it vp, and to roote it out and to destroy it.
Jeremiah 18:8	But if this nation, against whom I haue pronounced, turne from their wickednesse, I will repent of the plague that I thought to bring vpon them.
Jeremiah 18:9	And I wil speake suddenly concerning a nation, and concerning a kingdome to builde it and to plant it.
Jeremiah 18:10	But if it do euill in my sight and heare not my voyce, I will repent of ye good that I thought to do for them.
Jeremiah 18:11	Speake thou nowe therefore vnto the men of Iudah, and to the inhabitants of Ierusalem, saying, Thus saith ye Lord, Behold, I prepare a plague for you, and purpose a thing against you: returne you therefore euery one from his euill way, and make your wayes and your workes good.
Jeremiah 18:12	But they sayde desperately, Surely wee will walke after our owne imaginations, and doe euery man after the stubburnnesse of his wicked heart.
Jeremiah 18:13	Therefore thus saith the Lord, Aske now among the heathen, who hath heard such thinges? the virgin of Israel hath done very filthily.
Jeremiah 18:14	Will a man forsake the snowe of Lebanon, which commeth from the rocke of the fielde? or shall the colde flowing waters, that come from another place, be forsaken?
Jeremiah 18:15	Because my people hath forgotten me, and haue burnt incense to vanitie, and their prophets haue caused them to stumble in their wayes from the auncient wayes, to walke in the pathes and way that is not troden,
Jeremiah 18:16	To make their land desolate and a perpetual derision, so that euery one that passeth thereby, shalbe astonished and wagge his head,
Jeremiah 18:17	I will scatter them with an East winde before the enemie: I will shewe them the backe, and not the face in the day of their destruction.
Jeremiah 18:18	Then sayde they, Come, and let vs imagine some deuice against Ieremiah: for the Lawe shall not perish from the Priest, nor counsell from the wise, nor the worde from the Prophet: come, and let vs smite him with the tongue, and let vs not giue heede to any of his words.
Jeremiah 18:19	Hearken vnto mee, O Lord, and heare the voyce of them that contend with me.
Jeremiah 18:20	Shall euill be recompensed for good? for they haue digged a pit for my soule: remember that I stood before thee, to speake good for the, and to turne away thy wrath from them.
Jeremiah 18:21	Therefore, deliuer vp their children to famine, and let them drop away by the force of the sworde, and let their wiues be robbed of their children, and be widowes: and let their husbands be put to death, and let their yong men be slayne by the sword in the battell.
Jeremiah 18:22	Let the crye bee heard from their houses, when thou shalt bring an hoste suddenly vpon them: for they haue digged a pit to take me, and hid snares for my feete.
Jeremiah 18:23	Yet Lord thou knowest al their counsel against me tendeth to death: forgiue not their iniquitie, neither put out their sinne from thy sight, but let them be ouerthrowen before thee: deale thus with them in the time of thine anger.
Jeremiah 19:1	Thus sayth the Lord, Goe, and buy an earthen bottel of a potter, and take of the ancients of the people, and of the ancients of the Priests,
Jeremiah 19:2	And goe forth vnto the valley of Ben-hinnom, which is by the entrie of the East gate: and thou shalt preache there the wordes, that I shall tell thee,
Jeremiah 19:3	And shalt say, Heare yee the worde of the Lord, O Kings of Iudah, and inhabitantes of Ierusalem, Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Behold, I will bring a plague vpon this place, the which whosoeuer heareth, his eares shall tingle.
Jeremiah 19:4	Because they haue forsaken me, and prophaned this place, and haue burnt incense in it vnto other gods, whome neyther they, nor their fathers haue knowen, nor the Kings of Iudah (they haue filled this place also with the blood of innocents,
Jeremiah 19:5	And they haue built the hie places of Baal, to burne their sonnes with fire for burnt offrings vnto Baal, which I commanded not, nor spake it, neither came it into my minde)
Jeremiah 19:6	Therefore behold, the dayes come, sayth the Lord, that this place shall no more be called Topheth, nor ye valley of Ben-hinnom, but the valley of slaughter.
Jeremiah 19:7	And I will bring the counsell of Iudah and Ierusalem to nought in this place, and I will cause them to fall by the sword before their enemies, and by the hand of them that seeke their liues: and their carkeises will I giue to be meate for ye foules of the heauen, and to the beastes of the fielde.
Jeremiah 19:8	And I will make this citie desolate and an hissing, so that euery one that passeth thereby, shalbe astonished and hisse because of all ye plagues thereof.
Jeremiah 19:9	And I will feede the with the flesh of their sonnes and with the flesh of their daughters, and euery one shall eate the flesh of his friende in the siege and straitnesse, wherewith their enemies that seeke their liues, shall hold them strait.
Jeremiah 19:10	Then shalt thou breake the bottell in the sight of the men that go with thee,
Jeremiah 19:11	And shalt say vnto them, Thus saith ye Lord of hostes, Euen so will I breake this people and this citie, as one breaketh a potters vessell, that cannot be made whole againe, and they shall bury them in Topheth till there be no place to bury.
Jeremiah 19:12	Thus will I doe vnto this place, sayth the Lord, and to the inhabitantes thereof, and I will make this citie like Topheth.
Jeremiah 19:13	For the houses of Ierusalem, and the houses of the Kings of Iudah shalbe defiled as the place of Topheth, because of al the houses vpon whose roofes they haue burnt incense vnto all the host of heauen, and haue powred out drinke offerings vnto other gods.
Jeremiah 19:14	Then came Ieremiah from Topheth, where the Lord had sent him to prophecie, and he stood in the court of the Lordes house, and sayde to all the people,
Jeremiah 19:15	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Beholde, I will bring vpon this citie, and vpon all her townes, all the plagues that I haue pronounced against it, because they haue hardened their neckes, and would not heare my wordes.
Jeremiah 20:1	When Pashur, the sonne of Immer, the Priest, which was appointed gouernour in the house of the Lord, heard that Ieremiah prophecied these things,
Jeremiah 20:2	Then Pashur smote Ieremiah the Prophet, and put him in the stockes that were in the hie gate of Beniamin which was by the House of the Lord.
Jeremiah 20:3	And on the morning, Pashur brought Ieremiah out of the stockes. Then said Ieremiah vnto him, The Lord hath not called thy name Pashur, but Magor-missabib.
Jeremiah 20:4	For thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will make thee to be a terrour to thy self, and to al thy friends, and they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and thine eyes shall beholde it, and I will giue all Iudah into the hande of the King of Babel, and he shall cary them captiue into Babel, and shall slay them with the sworde.
Jeremiah 20:5	Moreouer, I will deliuer all the substance of this citie, and all the labours thereof, and al the precious things thereof, and all the treasures of the Kings of Iudah will I giue into the hande of their enemies, which shall spoyle them, and take them away and cary them to Babel.
Jeremiah 20:6	And thou Pashur, and all that dwell in thine house, shall go into captiuitie, and thou shalt come to Babel, and there thou shalt die, and shalt be buryed there, thou and all thy friendes, to whome thou hast prophecied lyes.
Jeremiah 20:7	O Lord, thou hast deceiued me, and I am deceiued: thou art stronger then I, and hast preuailed: I am in derision daily: euery one mocketh me.
Jeremiah 20:8	For since I spake, I cryed out of wrong, and proclaimed desolation: therefore the word of the Lord was made a reproche vnto me, and in derision daily.
Jeremiah 20:9	Then I said, I will not make mention of him, nor speake any more in his Name. But his worde was in mine heart as a burning fire shut vp in my bones, and I was weary with forbearing, and I could not stay.
Jeremiah 20:10	For I had heard the railing of many, and feare on euery side. Declare, said they, and wee wil declare it: all my familiars watched for mine halting, saying, It may be that he is deceiued: so we shall preuaile against him, and we shall execute our vengeance vpon him.
Jeremiah 20:11	But the Lord is with me like a mightie gyant: therefore my persecuters shall be ouerthrowen, and shall not preuaile, and shalbe greatly confounded: for they haue done vnwisely, and their euerlasting shame shall neuer be forgotten.
Jeremiah 20:12	But, O Lord of hostes, that tryest the righteous, and seest the reines and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them: for vnto thee haue I opened my cause.
Jeremiah 20:13	Sing vnto the Lord, praise ye the Lord: for he hath deliuered the soule of the poore from the hande of the wicked.
Jeremiah 20:14	Cursed be the day wherein I was borne: and let not the day wherein my mother bare me, be blessed.
Jeremiah 20:15	Cursed be the man, that shewed my father, saying, A man child is borne vnto thee, and comforted him.
Jeremiah 20:16	And let that man be as the cities, which the Lord hath ouerturned and repented not: and let him heare the cry in the morning, and the showting at noone tide,
Jeremiah 20:17	Because he hath not slaine me, euen from the wombe, or that my mother might haue bene my graue, or her wobe a perpetual conception.
Jeremiah 20:18	How is it, that I came forth of the wombe, to see labour and sorowe, that my dayes shoulde be consumed with shame?
Jeremiah 21:1	The worde which came vnto Ieremiah from the Lord, when king Zedekiah sent vnto him Pashur, the sonne of Malchiah, and Zephaniah, the sonne of Maaseiah the Priest, saying,
Jeremiah 21:2	Inquire, I pray thee, of the Lord for vs, (for Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel maketh warre against vs) if so be that the Lord will deale with vs according to all his wonderous workes, that he may returne vp from vs.
Jeremiah 21:3	Then said Ieremiah, Thus shall you say to Zedekiah,
Jeremiah 21:4	Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Behold, I will turne backe the weapons of warre that are in your hands, wherewith ye fight against the King of Babel, and against the Caldeans, which besiege you without the walles, and I will assemble them into the middes of this citie.
Jeremiah 21:5	And I my selfe will fight against you with an outstretched hand, and with a mighty arme, eue in anger and in wrath, and in great indignation.
Jeremiah 21:6	And I will smite the inhabitants of this citie, both man, and beast: they shall die of a great pestilence.
Jeremiah 21:7	And after this, sayeth the Lord, I will deliuer Zedekiah the King of Iudah, and his seruants, and the people, and such as are left in this citie, from the pestilence, from the sworde and from the famine into the hande of Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel, and into the hande of their enemies, and into the hande of those that seeke their liues, and he shall smite them with the edge of the sworde: he shall not spare them, neither haue pitie nor compassion.
Jeremiah 21:8	And vnto this people thou shalt say, Thus saith the Lord, Beholde, I set before you the way of life, and the way of death.
Jeremiah 21:9	He that abideth in this citie, shall dye by the sword and by the famine, and by the pestilence: but he that goeth out, and falleth to the Caldeans, that besiege you, he shall liue, and his life shalbe vnto him for a pray.
Jeremiah 21:10	For I haue set my face against this citie, for euill and not for good, saith the Lord: it shalbe giuen into the hande of the King of Babel, and he shall burne it with fire.
Jeremiah 21:11	And say vnto the house of the King of Iudah, Heare ye the worde of the Lord.
Jeremiah 21:12	O house of Dauid, thus saith the Lord, Execute iudgement in the morning, and deliuer the oppressed out of the hande of the oppressor, lest my wrath go out like fire and burne, that none can quench it, because of the wickednes of your workes.
Jeremiah 21:13	Beholde, I come against thee, O inhabitant of the valley, and rocke of the plaine, saith the Lord, which say, Who shall come downe against vs? or who shall enter into our habitations?
Jeremiah 21:14	But I will visite you according to the fruite of your workes, saith the Lord, and I will kindle a fire in the forest thereof, and it shall deuoure rounde about it.
Jeremiah 22:1	Thus said the Lord, Goe downe to the house of the King of Iudah, and speake there this thing,
Jeremiah 22:2	And say, Heare the worde of the Lord, O King of Iudah, that sittest vpon the throne of Dauid, thou and thy seruants, and thy people that enter in by these gates.
Jeremiah 22:3	Thus saith the Lord, Execute ye iudgement and righteousnes, and deliuer the oppressed from the hande of the oppressor, and vexe not the stranger, the fatherlesse, nor the widowe: doe no violence, nor sheade innocent blood in this place.
Jeremiah 22:4	For if ye do this thing, then shall the kings sitting vpon the throne of Dauid enter in by the gates of this House, and ride vpon charets, and vpon horses, both he and his seruants and his people.
Jeremiah 22:5	But if ye will not heare these wordes, I sweare by my selfe, saith the Lord, that this House shalbe waste.
Jeremiah 22:6	For thus hath the Lord spoken vpon the Kings house of Iudah, Thou art Gilead vnto me, and the head of Lebanon, yet surely I wil make thee a wildernes and as cities not inhabited,
Jeremiah 22:7	And I will prepare destroyers against thee, euery one with his weapons, and they shall cut downe thy chiefe cedar trees, and cast them in the fire.
Jeremiah 22:8	And many nations shall passe by this citie, and they shall say euery man to his neighbour, Wherefore hath the Lord done thus vnto this great citie?
Jeremiah 22:9	Then shall they answere, Because they haue forsaken the couenant of the Lord their God, and worshipped other gods, and serued them.
Jeremiah 22:10	Weepe not for the dead, and be not moued for them, but weepe for him that goeth out: for he shall returne no more, nor see his natiue countrey.
Jeremiah 22:11	For thus saith ye Lord, As touching Shallum the sonne of Iosiah King of Iudah, which reigned for Iosiah his father, which went out of this place, he shall not returne thither,
Jeremiah 22:12	But he shall die in the place, whither they haue ledde him captiue, and shall see this lande no more.
Jeremiah 22:13	Wo vnto him that buildeth his house by vnrighteousnesse, and his chambers without equitie: he vseth his neighbour without wages, and giueth him not for his worke.
Jeremiah 22:14	He saith, I will build me a wide house and large chambers: so he will make him selfe large windowes, and feeling with cedar, and paint them with vermilion.
Jeremiah 22:15	Shalt thou reigne, because thou closest thy selfe in cedar? did not thy father eate and drinke and prosper, when he executed iudgement and iustice?
Jeremiah 22:16	When he iudged the cause of the afflicted and the poore, he prospered: was not this because he knewe me, saith the Lord?
Jeremiah 22:17	But thine eyes and thine heart are but only for thy couetousnesse, and for to sheade innocent blood, and for oppression, and for destruction, euen to doe this.
Jeremiah 22:18	Therefore thus saith the Lord against Iehoiakim, the sonne of Iosiah king of Iudah, They shall not lament him, saying, Ah, my brother, or ah, sister: neither shall they mourne for him, saying, Ah, lord, or ah, his glorie.
Jeremiah 22:19	He shalbe buryed, as an asse is buryed, euen drawen and cast foorth without the gates of Ierusalem.
Jeremiah 22:20	Goe vp to Lebanon, and cry: showte in Bashan and crye by the passages: for all thy louers are destroyed.
Jeremiah 22:21	I spake vnto thee when thou wast in prosperitie: but thou saidest, I will not heare: this hath bene thy maner from thy youth, that thou wouldest not obey my voyce.
Jeremiah 22:22	The wind shall feede all thy pastors, and thy louers shall goe into captiuitie: and then shalt thou be ashamed and confounded of al thy wickednesse.
Jeremiah 22:23	Thou that dwellest in Lebanon, and makest thy nest in the cedars, howe beautiful shalt thou be when sorowes come vpon thee, as the sorowe of a woman in trauaile?
Jeremiah 22:24	As I liue, saith the Lord, though Coniah the sonne of Iehoiakim King of Iudah, were the signet of my right hand, yet would I plucke thee thence.
Jeremiah 22:25	And I will giue thee into the hande of them that seeke thy life, and into the hande of them, whose face thou fearest, euen into the hand of Nebuchad-nezzar king of Babel, and into the hande of the Caldeans.
Jeremiah 22:26	And I will cause them to cary thee away, and thy mother that bare thee, into another countrey, where ye were not borne, and there shall ye die.
Jeremiah 22:27	But to the lande, whereunto they desire to returne, they shall not returne thither.
Jeremiah 22:28	Is not this man Coniah as a despised and broken idole? or as a vessell, wherein is no pleasure? wherefore are they caryed away, hee and his seede, and cast out into a lande that they knowe not?
Jeremiah 22:29	O earth, earth, earth, heare the worde of the Lord.
Jeremiah 22:30	Thus saith the Lord, Write this man destitute of children, a man that shall not prosper in his dayes: for there shall be no man of his seede that shall prosper and sit vpon the throne of Dauid, or beare rule any more in Iudah.
Jeremiah 23:1	Woe be vnto the pastors that destroy and scatter the sheepe of my pasture, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 23:2	Therefore thus saith the Lord God of Israel vnto the pastors that feede my people, Yee haue scattered my flock and thrust them out, and haue not visited them: beholde, I will visite you for the wickednesse of your works, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 23:3	And I will gather the remnant of my sheepe out of all countreyes, whither I had driuen them, and will bring them againe to their foldes, and they shall growe and encrease.
Jeremiah 23:4	And I will set vp shepheardes ouer them, which shall feede them: and they shall dread no more nor be afraide, neither shall any of them be lacking, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 23:5	Behold, The dayes come, saith the Lord, that I will raise vnto Dauid a righteous branche, and a King shall reigne, and prosper, and shall execute iudgement, and iustice in the earth.
Jeremiah 23:6	In his dayes Iudah shalbe saued, and Israel shall dwell safely, and this is the Name wherby they shall call him, The Lord our righteousnesse.
Jeremiah 23:7	Therefore behold, the dayes come, sayth the Lord, that they shall no more say, The Lord liueth, which brought vp the children of Israel out of the lande of Egypt,
Jeremiah 23:8	But the Lord liueth, which brought vp and led the seede of the house of Israel out of the North countrey and from all countryes where I had scattered them, and they shall dwell in their owne lande.
Jeremiah 23:9	Mine heart breaketh within mee, because of the prophets, all my bones shake: I am like a drunken man (and like a man whome wine hath ouercome) for the presence of the Lord and for his holie wordes.
Jeremiah 23:10	For the lande is full of adulterers, and because of othes the lande mourneth, the pleasant places of the wildernesse are dried vp, and their course is euill, and their force is not right.
Jeremiah 23:11	For both the prophet and the Priest doe wickedly: and their wickednesse haue I found in mine House, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 23:12	Wherefore their way shalbe vnto them as slipperie wayes in the darknesse: they shalbe driuen foorth and fall therein: for I will bring a plague vpon them, euen the yeere of their visitation, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 23:13	And I haue seene foolishnesse in the prophets of Samaria, that prophecied in Baal, and caused my people Israel to erre.
Jeremiah 23:14	I haue seene also in the prophets of Ierusalem filthines: they commit adulterie and walke in lies: they strengthen also the hands of the wicked that none can returne from his wickednesse: they are all vnto me as Sodom, and the inhabitants thereof as Gomorah.
Jeremiah 23:15	Therefore thus saith the Lord of hostes concerning the prophets, Beholde, I will feede them with wormewood, and make them drinke the water of gall: for from the prophets of Ierusalem is wickednesse gone forth into all the lande.
Jeremiah 23:16	Thus sayth ye Lord of hosts, Heare not the wordes of the prophets that prophecie vnto you, and teach you vanitie: they speake the vision of their owne heart, and not out of the mouth of the Lord.
Jeremiah 23:17	They say still vnto them that despise mee, The Lord hath sayde, Ye shall haue peace: and they say vnto euery one that walketh after the stubbernesse of his owne heart, No euill shall come vpon you.
Jeremiah 23:18	For who hath stand in the counsel of the Lord that he hath perceiued and heard his word? Who hath marked his worde and heard it?
Jeremiah 23:19	Beholde, the tempest of the Lord goeth forth in his wrath, and a violent whirlewinde shall fall downe vpon the head of the wicked.
Jeremiah 23:20	The anger of the Lord shall not returne vntill he haue executed, and till he haue perfourmed the thoughts of his heart: in the latter dayes ye shall vnderstande it plainely.
Jeremiah 23:21	I haue not sent these prophets, sayth the Lord, yet they ranne; I haue not spoken to them, and yet they prophecied.
Jeremiah 23:22	But if they had stande in my counsell, and had declared my words to my people, then they should haue turned them from their euill way, and from the wickednesse of their inuentions.
Jeremiah 23:23	Am I a God at hande, saith the Lord, and not a God farre off?
Jeremiah 23:24	Can any hide him selfe in secrete places, that I shall not see him, sayth the Lord? Do not I fill heauen and earth, saieth the Lord?
Jeremiah 23:25	I haue heard what the prophets said, that prophecie lies in my Name, saying, I haue dreamed, I haue dreamed.
Jeremiah 23:26	Howe long? Doe the prophets delite to prophecie lies, euen prophecying the deceit of their owne heart?
Jeremiah 23:27	Thinke they to cause my people to forget my Name by their dreames, which they tell euery man to his neyghbour, as their forefathers haue forgotten my Name for Baal?
Jeremiah 23:28	The prophet that hath a dreame, let him tell a dreame, and hee that hath my worde, let him speake my worde faithfully: what is the chaffe to the wheate, sayth the Lord?
Jeremiah 23:29	Is not my word euen like a fire, sayeth the Lord? and like an hammer, that breaketh the stone?
Jeremiah 23:30	Therefore beholde, I will come against the prophets, saieth the Lord, that steale my word euerie one from his neighbour.
Jeremiah 23:31	Beholde, I will come against the prophets, saith the Lord, which haue sweete tongues, and say, He saith.
Jeremiah 23:32	Beholde, I will come against them that prophecie false dreames, saith the Lord, and doe tell them, and cause my people to erre by their lies, and by their flatteries, and I sent them not, nor commanded them: therefore they bring no profite vnto this people, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 23:33	And when this people, or the prophet, or a Priest shall aske thee, saying, What is the burden of the Lord? thou shalt then say vnto them, What burden? I will euen forsake you, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 23:34	And the prophet, or the Priest, or the people that shall say, The burden of the Lord, I will euen visite euerie such one, and his house.
Jeremiah 23:35	Thus shall yee say euery one to his neighbour, and euerie one to his brother, What hath the Lord answered? and what hath the Lord spoken?
Jeremiah 23:36	And the burden of the Lord shall yee mention no more: for euery mans worde shall bee his burden: for ye haue peruerted the words of the liuing God, the Lord of hostes our God.
Jeremiah 23:37	Thus shalt thou say to the Prophet, What hath the Lord answered thee? and what hath the Lord spoken?
Jeremiah 23:38	And if you say, The burden of the Lord, Then thus saith the Lord, Because yee say this word, The burden of the Lord, and I haue sent vnto you, saying, Ye shall not say, The burden of the Lord,
Jeremiah 23:39	Therefore beholde, I, euen I will vtterly forget you, and I will forsake you, and the citie that I gaue you and your fathers, and cast you out of my presence,
Jeremiah 23:40	And will bring an euerlasting reproche vpon you, and a perpetual shame which shall neuer be forgotten.
Jeremiah 24:1	The Lord shewed me, and beholde, two baskets of figges were set before the Temple of the Lord, after that Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel had caryed away captiue Ieconiah ye sonne of Iehoiakim King of Iudah, and the princes of Iudah with the workemen, and cunning men of Ierusalem, and had brought them to Babel.
Jeremiah 24:2	One basket had verie good figges, euen like the figges that are first ripe: and the other basket had verie naughtie figges, which could not be eaten, they were so euill.
Jeremiah 24:3	Then saide the Lord vnto mee, What seest thou, Ieremiah? And I said, Figges: ye good figges verie good, and the naughtie verie naughtie, which cannot be eaten, they are so euill.
Jeremiah 24:4	Againe the worde of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Jeremiah 24:5	Thus sayeth the Lord, the God of Israel, Like these good figges, so will I knowe them that are caryed away captiue of Iudah to bee good, whome I haue sent out of this place, into the land of the Caldeans.
Jeremiah 24:6	For I wil set mine eyes vpon them for good, and I will bring them againe to this lande, and I will build them, and not destroy them, and I will plant them, and not roote them out,
Jeremiah 24:7	And I will giue them an heart to knowe me, that I am the Lord, and they shalbe my people, and I wil be their God: for they shall returne vnto mee with their whole heart.
Jeremiah 24:8	And as the naughtie figges which can not bee eaten, they are so euill (surely thus saith the Lord) so wil I giue Zedekiah the King of Iudah, and his princes, and the residue of Ierusalem, that remaine in this lande, and them that dwell in the lande of Egypt:
Jeremiah 24:9	I will euen giue them for a terrible plague to all the kingdomes of the earth, and for a reproche, and for a prouerbe, for a common talke, and for a curse, in all places where I shall cast them.
Jeremiah 24:10	And I will sende the sworde, the famine, and the pestilence among them, till they bee consumed out of the land, that I gaue vnto them and to their fathers.
Jeremiah 25:1	The word that came to Ieremiah, concerning all the people of Iudah in the fourth yeere of Iehoiakim the sonne of Iosiah King of Iudah that was in the first yeere of Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel:
Jeremiah 25:2	The which Ieremiah the Prophet spake vnto all the people of Iudah, and to all the inhabitants of Ierusalem, saying,
Jeremiah 25:3	From the thirteenth yeere of Iosiah the sonne of Amon King of Iudah, euen vnto this day (that is the three and twentieth yeere) the word of the Lord hath come vnto mee, and I haue spoken vnto you rising earely and speaking, but ye woulde not heare.
Jeremiah 25:4	And the Lord hath sent vnto you all his seruantes the Prophets, rising early and sending them, but yee would not heare, nor encline your eares to obey.
Jeremiah 25:5	They sayde, Turne againe now euery one from his euill way, and from the wickednes of your inuentions, and ye shall dwell in the lande that the Lord hath giuen vnto you, and to your fathers for euer and euer.
Jeremiah 25:6	And go not after other gods to serue them and to worshippe them, and prouoke me not to anger with the workes of your hands, and I will not punish you.
Jeremiah 25:7	Neuerthelesse ye would not heare me, saith the Lord, but haue prouoked mee to anger with the workes of your hands to your owne hurt.
Jeremiah 25:8	Therefore thus saith the Lord of hostes, Because ye haue not heard my wordes,
Jeremiah 25:9	Beholde, I will send and take to mee all the families of the North, saith the Lord, and Nebuchad-nezzar the King of Babel my seruant, and will bring them against this lande, and against the inhabitantes thereof, and against all these nations rounde about, and will destroy them, and make them an astonishment and an hissing, and a continuall desolation.
Jeremiah 25:10	Moreouer I will take from them the voyce of mirth and the voyce of gladnesse, the voyce of the bridegrome and the voyce of the bride, the noise of the milstones, and the light of the candle.
Jeremiah 25:11	And this whole land shalbe desolate, and an astonishment, and these nations shall serue the King of Babel seuentie yeeres.
Jeremiah 25:12	And when the seuentie yeres are accomplished, I will visite the King of Babel and that nation, saith the Lord, for their iniquities, euen the land of the Caldeans, and will make it a perpetuall desolation,
Jeremiah 25:13	And I will bring vpon that lande all my wordes which I haue pronounced against it, euen all that is written in this booke, which Ieremiah hath prophecied against all nations.
Jeremiah 25:14	For many nations, and great Kings shall euen serue themselues of them: thus will I recompense them according to their deedes, and according to the workes of their owne handes.
Jeremiah 25:15	For thus hath the Lord God of Israel spoken vnto me, Take the cuppe of wine of this mine indignation at mine hand, and cause all the nations, to whome I sende thee, to drinke it.
Jeremiah 25:16	And they shall drinke, and be moued and be mad, because of the sworde that I will sende among them.
Jeremiah 25:17	Then tooke I the cup at the Lordes hand, and made all people to drinke, vnto whome the Lord had sent me:
Jeremiah 25:18	Euen Ierusalem, and the cities of Iudah, and the Kings thereof, and the princes thereof, to make them desolate, an astonishment, an hissing, and a curse, as appeareth this day:
Jeremiah 25:19	Pharaoh also, King of Egypt, and his seruants, and his princes, and all his people:
Jeremiah 25:20	And all sortes of people, and all the Kings of the lande of Vz: and all the Kings of the lande of the Philistims, and Ashkelon, and Azzah, and Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod:
Jeremiah 25:21	Edom, and Moab, and the Ammonites,
Jeremiah 25:22	And all the Kings of Tyrus, and all the kings of Zidon, and the Kings of the Yles, that are beyonde the Sea,
Jeremiah 25:23	And Dedan, and Tema, and Buz, and all that dwell in the vttermost corners,
Jeremiah 25:24	And all the Kings of Arabia, and all the Kings of Arabia, that dwell in the desert,
Jeremiah 25:25	And all the Kings of Zimri, and all the Kings of Elam, and all the Kings of the Medes,
Jeremiah 25:26	And all the Kings of the North, farre and neere one to another, and all the kingdomes of the worlde, which are vpon the earth, and the king of Sheshach shall drinke after them.
Jeremiah 25:27	Therefore say thou vnto them, Thus saith the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Drinke and bee drunken, and spewe and fall, and rise no more, because of the sworde, which I will sende among you.
Jeremiah 25:28	But if they refuse to take the cuppe at thine hande to drinke, then tell them, Thus saith the Lord of hostes, Ye shall certainely drinke.
Jeremiah 25:29	For loe, I beginne to plague the citie, where my Name is called vpon, and shoulde you goe free? Ye shall not goe quite: for I will call for a sword vpon al the inhabitants of the earth, saith the Lord of hostes.
Jeremiah 25:30	Therefore prophecie thou against them al these words, and say vnto them, The Lord shall roare from aboue, and thrust out his voyce from his holy habitation: he shall roare vpon his habitation, and crie aloude, as they that presse the grapes, against all the inhabitants of the earth.
Jeremiah 25:31	The sounde shall come to the endes of the earth: for the Lord hath a controuersie with the nations, and will enter into iudgement with all flesh, and he will giue them that are wicked, to the sworde, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 25:32	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, Behold, a plague shall goe foorth from nation to nation, and a great whirlewinde shalbe raised vp from the coastes of the earth,
Jeremiah 25:33	And the slaine of the Lord shall be at that day, from one ende of the earth, euen vnto the other ende of the earth: they shall not bee mourned, neither gathered nor buried, but shalbe as the dongue vpon the grounde.
Jeremiah 25:34	Howle, ye shepherdes, and crie, and wallowe your selues in the ashes, ye principall of the flocke: for your dayes of slaughter are accomplished, and of your dispersion, and ye shall fall like precious vessels.
Jeremiah 25:35	And the flight shall faile from the shepherdes, and the escaping from the principall of the flocke.
Jeremiah 25:36	A voyce of the crye of the shepherdes, and an howling of the principall of the flocke shalbe heard: for the Lord hath destroyed their pasture.
Jeremiah 25:37	And the best pastures are destroyed because of the wrath and indignation of the Lord.
Jeremiah 25:38	He hath forsaken his couert, as the lyon: for their land is waste, because of the wrath of the oppressor, and because of ye wrath of his indignatio.
Jeremiah 26:1	In the beginning of the reigne of Iehoiakim the sonne of Iosiah King of Iudah, came this worde from the Lord, saying,
Jeremiah 26:2	Thus saith the Lord, Sande in the court of the Lordes House, and speake vnto all the cities of Iudah, which come to worshippe in the Lords House, all the wordes that I commaund thee to speake vnto them: keepe not a worde backe,
Jeremiah 26:3	If so be they will hearken, and turne euery man from his euill way, that I may repent me of the plague, which I haue determined to bring vpon them, because of the wickednesse of their workes.
Jeremiah 26:4	And thou shalt say vnto them, Thus saith the Lord, If ye will not heare me to walke in my Lawes, which I haue set before you,
Jeremiah 26:5	And to heare ye wordes of my seruants the Prophets, whome I sent vnto you, both rising vp earely, and sending them, and will not obey them,
Jeremiah 26:6	Then will I make this House like Shiloh, and will make this citie a curse to all the nations of the earth.
Jeremiah 26:7	So the Priestes, and the Prophets, and all the people heard Ieremiah speaking these wordes in the House of the Lord.
Jeremiah 26:8	Nowe when Ieremiah had made an end of speaking all that the Lord had commanded him to speake vnto all the people, then the Priestes, and the prophets, and all the people tooke him, and saide, Thou shalt die the death.
Jeremiah 26:9	Why hast thou prophecied in the Name of the Lord, saying, This House shall be like Shiloh, and this citie shalbe desolate without an inhabitant? and all the people were gathered against Ieremiah in the House of the Lord.
Jeremiah 26:10	And when the princes of Iudah heard of these things, they came vp from the Kings house into the House of the Lord, and sate downe in the entrie of the new gate of the Lords House.
Jeremiah 26:11	Then spake the Priestes, and the prophets vnto the princes, and to all the people, saying, This man is worthie to die: for he hath prophecied against this citie, as ye haue heard with your eares.
Jeremiah 26:12	Then spake Ieremiah vnto all the princes, and to al the people, saying, The Lord hath sent me to prophecie against this house and against this citie all the things that ye haue heard.
Jeremiah 26:13	Therefore nowe amende your wayes and your workes, and heare the voyce of the Lord your God, that the Lord may repent him of the plague, that he hath pronounced against you.
Jeremiah 26:14	As for me, beholde, I am in your hands: do with me as ye thinke good and right.
Jeremiah 26:15	But knowe ye for certaine, that if ye put me to death, ye shall surely bring innocent blood vpon your selues, and vpon this citie, and vpon the inhabitants thereof: for of a trueth the Lord hath sent me vnto you, to speake all these words in your eares.
Jeremiah 26:16	Then saide the princes and all the people vnto the Priestes, and to the prophets, This man is not worthie to die: for he hath spoken vnto vs in the Name of the Lord our God.
Jeremiah 26:17	Then rose vp certaine of the Elders of the lande, and spake to all the assemblie of the people, saying,
Jeremiah 26:18	Michah the Morashite prophecied in the dayes of Hezekiah king of Iudah, and spake to al the people of Iudah, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hostes, Zion shall be plowed like a fielde, and Ierusalem shalbe an heape, and the mountaine of the House shalbe as the hie places of the forest.
Jeremiah 26:19	Did Hezekiah King of Iudah, and all Iudah put him to death? did he not feare ye Lord, and prayed before the Lord, and the Lord repented him of the plague, that he had pronounced against them? Thus might we procure great euill against our soules.
Jeremiah 26:20	And there was also a man that prophecied in the Name of the Lord, one Vriiah the sonne of Shemaiah, of Kiriath-iarem, who prophecied against this citie, and against this lande, according to all the wordes of Ieremiah.
Jeremiah 26:21	Nowe when Iehoiakim the King with all his men of power, and all the princes heard his wordes, the King sought to slay him. But when Vriiah heard it, he was afraide and fled, and went into Egypt.
Jeremiah 26:22	Then Iehoiakim the King sent men into Egypt, euen Elnathan the sonne of Achbor, and certaine with him into Egypt.
Jeremiah 26:23	And they fet Vriiah out of Egypt, and brought him vnto Iehoiakim the King, who slew him with the sword, and cast his dead bodie into the graues of the children of the people.
Jeremiah 26:24	But the hande of Ahikam the sonne of Shaphan was with Ieremiah that they shoulde not giue him into the hande of the people to put him to death.
Jeremiah 27:1	In the beginning of the reigne of Iehoiakim the sonne of Iosiah King of Iudah came this worde vnto Ieremiah from the Lord, saying,
Jeremiah 27:2	Thus saith the Lord to me, Make thee bonds, and yokes, and put them vpon thy necke,
Jeremiah 27:3	And send them to the King of Edom, and to the King of Moab, and to the King of the Ammonites, and to the King of Tyrus, and to the king of Zidon, by the hande of the messengers which come to Ierusale vnto Zedekiah ye king of Iudah,
Jeremiah 27:4	And commande them to saye vnto their masters, Thus saith the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, Thus shall ye say vnto your masters,
Jeremiah 27:5	I haue made the earth, the man, and the beast that are vpon the groud, by my great power, and by my outstreched arme, and haue giuen it vnto whom it pleased me.
Jeremiah 27:6	But nowe I haue giuen all these landes into the hand of Nebuchad-nezzar the King of Babel my seruant, and the beastes of the fielde haue I also giuen him to serue him.
Jeremiah 27:7	And all nations shall serue him, and his sonne, and his sonnes sonne vntill the very time of his lande come also: then many nations and great Kinges shall serue themselues of him.
Jeremiah 27:8	And the nation and kingdome which will not serue the same Nebuchad-nezzar king of Babel, and that will not put their necke vnder the yoke of the King of Babel, the same nation will I visite, saith the Lord, with the sworde, and with the famine, and with the pestilence, vntill I haue wholy giuen them into his hands.
Jeremiah 27:9	Therefore heare not your prophets nor your southsayers, nor your dreamers, nor your inchanters, nor your sorcerers, which say vnto you thus, Ye shall not serue the King of Babel.
Jeremiah 27:10	For they prophecie a lie vnto you to cause you to goe farre from your lande, and that I should cast you out, and you should perish.
Jeremiah 27:11	But the nation that put their neckes vnder the yoke of the King of Babel, and serue him, those wil I let remaine stil in their owne land, saith the Lord, and they shall occupie it, and dwel therein.
Jeremiah 27:12	I spake also to Zedekiah king of Iudah according to all these wordes, saying, Put your neckes vnder the yoke of the King of Babel, and serue him and his people, that ye may liue.
Jeremiah 27:13	Why will ye dye, thou, and thy people by the sworde, by the famine, and by the pestilence, as the Lord hath spoken against the nation, that will not serue the King of Babel?
Jeremiah 27:14	Therefore heare not the words of the prophets, that speake vnto you, saying, Ye shall not serue the King of Babel: for they prophecie a lie vnto you.
Jeremiah 27:15	For I haue not sent them, saith the Lord, yet they prophecie a lie in my name, that I might cast you out, and that ye might perish, both you, and the prophets that prophecie vnto you.
Jeremiah 27:16	Also I spake to the Priests, and to all this people, saying, Thus saith the Lord, Heare not the wordes of your prophets that prophecie vnto you, saying, Behold, the vessels of the house of the Lord shall nowe shortly be brought againe from Babel, for they prophecie a lie vnto you.
Jeremiah 27:17	Heare them not, but serue the King of Babel, that ye may liue: wherefore shoulde this citie be desolate?
Jeremiah 27:18	But if they be Prophets, and if the word of the Lord be with them, let them intreate the Lord of hostes, that the vessels, which are left in the House of the Lord, and in the house of the King of Iudah, and at Ierusalem, go not to Babel.
Jeremiah 27:19	For thus saith the Lord of hostes, concerning the pillars, and concerning the sea, and concerning the bases, and concerning the residue of the vessels that remaine in this citie,
Jeremiah 27:20	Which Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel tooke not, when he caryed away captiue Ieconiah the sonne of Iehoiakim King of Iudah from Ierusalem to Babel, with all the nobles of Iudah and Ierusalem.
Jeremiah 27:21	For thus saith the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, concerning the vessels that remaine in the House of the Lord, and in the house of the King of Iudah, and at Ierusalem,
Jeremiah 27:22	They shall be brought to Babel, and there they shalbe vntil the day that I visite them, saith the Lord: then will I bring them vp, and restore them vnto this place.
Jeremiah 28:1	And that same yeere in the beginning of the reigne of Zedekiah King of Iudah in the fourth yeere, and in the fifth moneth Hananiah the sonne of Azur the prophet, which was of Gibeon, spake to mee in the House of the Lord in the presence of the Priestes, and of all the people, and said,
Jeremiah 28:2	Thus speaketh the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, saying, I haue broken the yoke of the King of Babel.
Jeremiah 28:3	Within two yeeres space I will bring into this place all the vessels of the Lords House, that Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel tooke away from this place, and caried them into Babel.
Jeremiah 28:4	And I will bring againe to this place Ieconiah the sonne of Iehoiakim King of Iudah, with all them that were caried away captiue of Iudah, and went into Babel, saith the Lord: for I will breake the yoke of the King of Babel.
Jeremiah 28:5	Then the Prophet Ieremiah saide vnto the Prophet Hananiah in the presence of ye Priests, and in the presence of all the people that stoode in the House of the Lord.
Jeremiah 28:6	Euen the Prophet Ieremiah sayde, So bee it: the Lord so doe, the Lord confirme thy words which thou hast prophecied to restore the vessels of the Lordes House, and al that is caried captiue, from Babel, into this place.
Jeremiah 28:7	But heare thou now this worde that I will speake in thine eares and in the eares of all the people.
Jeremiah 28:8	The Prophets that haue beene before mee and before thee in time past, prophecied against many countreyes, and against great kingdomes, of warre, and of plagues, and of pestilence.
Jeremiah 28:9	And the Prophet which prophecieth of peace, when the word of the Prophet shall come to passe, then shall the Prophet be knowen that the Lord hath truely sent him.
Jeremiah 28:10	Then Hananiah the Prophet tooke the yoke from the Prophet Ieremiahs necke, and brake it.
Jeremiah 28:11	And Hananiah spake in the presence of all the people, saying, Thus saith the Lord, Euen so will I breake the yoke of Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel, from the necke of al nations within the space of two yeres: and the Prophet Ieremiah went his way.
Jeremiah 28:12	Then the word of the Lord came vnto Ieremiah the Prophet, (after that Hananiah the Prophet had broken the yoke from the necke of the Prophet Ieremiah) saying,
Jeremiah 28:13	Go, and tell Hananiah, saying, Thus sayth the Lord, Thou hast broken the yokes of wood, but thou shalt make for them yokes of yron.
Jeremiah 28:14	For thus saith the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, I haue put a yoke of yron vpon the necke of all these nations, that they may serue Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel: for they shall serue him, and I haue giuen him the beasts of the fielde also.
Jeremiah 28:15	Then sayd the Prophet Ieremiah vnto the Prophet Hananiah, Heare nowe Hananiah, the Lord hath not sent thee, but thou makest this people to trust in a lye.
Jeremiah 28:16	Therefore thus saith the Lord, Beholde, I will cast thee from of the earth: this yeere thou shalt die, because thou hast spoken rebelliously against the Lord.
Jeremiah 28:17	So Hananiah the Prophet died the same yeere in the seuenth moneth.
Jeremiah 29:1	Now these are the wordes of the booke that Ieremiah the Prophet sent from Ierusalem vnto the residue of the Elders which were caryed away captiues, and to the Priestes, and to the Prophets, and to all the people whome Nebuchad-nezzar had caried away captiue from Ierusalem to Babel:
Jeremiah 29:2	(After that Ieconiah the King, and the Queene, and the eunuches, the princes of Iudah, and of Ierusalem, and the workemen, and cunning men were departed from Ierusalem)
Jeremiah 29:3	By the hand of Elasah the sonne of Shaphan and Gemariah the sonne of Hilkiah, (whom Zedekiah King of Iudah sent vnto Babel to Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel) saying,
Jeremiah 29:4	Thus hath the Lord of hostes the God of Israel spoken vnto all that are caryed away captiues, whome I haue caused to be caryed away captiues from Ierusalem vnto Babel:
Jeremiah 29:5	Buylde you houses to dwell in, and plant you gardens, and eate the fruites of them.
Jeremiah 29:6	Take you wiues, and beget sonnes and daughters, and take wiues for your sonnes, and giue your daughters to husbands, that they may beare sonnes and daughters, that ye may bee increased there, and not diminished.
Jeremiah 29:7	And seeke the prosperitie of the citie, whither I haue caused you to be caried away captiues, and pray vnto the Lord for it: for in the peace thereof shall you haue peace.
Jeremiah 29:8	For thus saith the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, Let not your prophets, and your southsayers that bee among you, deceiue you, neither giue eare to your dreames, which you dreame.
Jeremiah 29:9	For they prophecie you a lie in my Name: I haue not sent them, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 29:10	But thus saith the Lord, That after seuentie yeeres be accomplished at Babel, I will visite you, and performe my good promise toward you, and cause you to returne to this place.
Jeremiah 29:11	For I knowe the thoughtes, that I haue thought towards you, saith the Lord, euen the thoughtes of peace, and not of trouble, to giue you an ende, and your hope.
Jeremiah 29:12	Then shall you crie vnto mee, and ye shall go and pray vnto me, and I will heare you,
Jeremiah 29:13	And ye shall seeke mee and finde mee, because ye shall seeke mee with all your heart.
Jeremiah 29:14	And I wil be found of you, saith the Lord, and I will turne away your captiuitie, and I will gather you from all the nations, and from all the places, whither I haue cast you, saith the Lord, and will bring you againe vnto the place, whence I caused you to be caryed away captiue.
Jeremiah 29:15	Because ye haue sayd, The Lord hath raised vs vp Prophets in Babel,
Jeremiah 29:16	Therefore thus saith the Lord of the King, that sitteth vpon the throne of Dauid, and of all the people, that dwell in this citie, your brethren that are not gone forth with you into captiuitie:
Jeremiah 29:17	Euen thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Beholde, I will sende vpon them the sworde, the famine, and the pestilence, and will make them like vile figges, that cannot bee eaten, they are so naughtie.
Jeremiah 29:18	And I will persecute them with the sword, with the famine, and with the pestilence: and I will make them a terror to all kingdomes of the earth, and a curse, and astonishment and an hissing, and a reproche among all the nations whither I haue cast them,
Jeremiah 29:19	Because they haue not hearde my words, saith the Lord, which I sent vnto them by my seruantes the Prophetes, rising vp earely, and sending them, but yee woulde not heare, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 29:20	Heare ye therefore the word of the Lord all ye of the captiuitie, whome I haue sent from Ierusalem to Babel.
Jeremiah 29:21	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, of Ahab the sonne of Kolaiah, and of Zedekiah the sonne of Maaseiah, which prophecie lyes vnto you in my Name, Beholde, I will deliuer them into the hande of Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel, and he shall slay them before your eyes.
Jeremiah 29:22	And al they of the captiuitie of Iudah, that are in Babel, shall take vp this curse against them, and say, The Lord make thee like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whome the King of Babel burnt in the fire,
Jeremiah 29:23	Because they haue committed vilenie in Israel, and haue committed adulterie with their neighbours wiues, and haue spoken lying words in my Name, which I haue not commanded them, euen I knowe it, and testifie it, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 29:24	Thou shalt also speake to Shemaiah the Nehelamite, saying,
Jeremiah 29:25	Thus speaketh the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, saying, Because thou hast sent letters in thy Name vnto all the people, that are at Ierusalem, and to Zephaniah the sonne of Maaseiah the Priest, and to all the Priests, saying,
Jeremiah 29:26	The Lord hath made thee Priest for Iehoiada the Priest, that yee should bee officers in the House of the Lord, for euery man that raueth and maketh himselfe a Prophet, to put him in prison and in the stockes.
Jeremiah 29:27	Nowe therefore why hast not thou reproued Ieremiah of Anathoth, which prophecieth vnto you?
Jeremiah 29:28	For, for this cause hee sent vnto vs in Babel, saying, This captiuitie is long: buyld houses to dwell in, and plant gardens, and eate the fruites of them.
Jeremiah 29:29	And Zephaniah the Priest red this letter in the eares of Ieremiah the Prophet.
Jeremiah 29:30	Then came the worde of the Lord vnto Ieremiah, saying,
Jeremiah 29:31	Send to all them of the captiuitie, saying, Thus saith the Lord of Shemaiah the Nehelamite, Because that Shemaiah hath prophecied vnto you, and I sent him not, and hee caused you to trust in a lye,
Jeremiah 29:32	Therefore thus saieth the Lord, Behold, I wil visite Shemaiah the Nehelamite, and his seede: hee shall not haue a man to dwell among this people, neither shall he beholde the good, that I will doe for my people, sayth the Lord, because he hath spoken rebelliously against the Lord.
Jeremiah 30:1	The worde, that came to Ieremiah from the Lord, saying,
Jeremiah 30:2	Thus speaketh the Lord God of Israel, saying, Write thee all the wordes, that I haue spoken vnto thee in a booke.
Jeremiah 30:3	For loe, the dayes come, saith the Lord, that I wil bring againe the captiuitie of my people Israel and Iudah, saith the Lord: for I will restore them vnto the lande, that I gaue to their fathers, and they shall possesse it.
Jeremiah 30:4	Againe, these are the wordes that the Lord spake concerning Israel, and concerning Iudah.
Jeremiah 30:5	For thus saith the Lord, wee haue heard a terrible voyce, of feare and not of peace.
Jeremiah 30:6	Demand now and beholde, if man trauayle with childe? wherefore doe I beholde euery man with his hands on his loynes as a woman in trauaile, and all faces are turned into a palenesse?
Jeremiah 30:7	Alas, for this day is great: none hath bene like it: it is euen the time of Iaakobs trouble, yet shall he be deliuered from it.
Jeremiah 30:8	For in that day, sayth the Lord of hostes, I will breake his yoke from off thy necke, and breake thy bondes, and strangers shall no more serue themselues of him.
Jeremiah 30:9	But they shall serue the Lord their God, and Dauid their King, whom I will raise vp vnto them.
Jeremiah 30:10	Therefore feare not, O my seruant Iaakob, saith the Lord, neither be afrayde, O Israel: for loe, I will deliuer thee from a farre countrey, and thy seede from the lande of their captiuitie, and Iaakob shall turne againe, and shalbe in rest and prosperitie and none shall make him afraide.
Jeremiah 30:11	For I am with thee, sayth the Lord, to saue thee: though I vtterly destroy all the nations where I haue scattered thee, yet will I not vtterly destroy thee, but I will correct thee by iudgement, and not vtterly cut thee off.
Jeremiah 30:12	For thus saith the Lord, Thy bruising is incurable, and thy wound is dolorous.
Jeremiah 30:13	There is none to iudge thy cause, or to lay a plaister: there are no medicines, nor help for thee.
Jeremiah 30:14	All thy louers haue forgotten thee: they seeke thee not: for I haue striken thee with the wound of an enemie, and with a sharpe chastisement for ye multitude of thine iniquities, because thy sinnes were increased.
Jeremiah 30:15	Why cryest thou for thine affliction? thy sorowe is incurable, for the multitude of thine iniquities: because thy sinnes were increased, I haue done these things vnto thee.
Jeremiah 30:16	Therefore all they that deuoure thee, shall be deuoured, and all thine enemies euery one shall goe into captiuitie: and they that spoyle thee, shalbe spoyled, and all they that robbe thee, wil I giue to be robbed.
Jeremiah 30:17	For I will restore health vnto thee, and I will heale thee of thy woundes, saith the Lord, because they called thee, The cast away, saying, This is Zion, whom no man seeketh after.
Jeremiah 30:18	Thus saith the Lord, Beholde, I will bring againe the captiuitie of Iaakobs tentes, and haue compassion on his dwelling places: and the citie shalbe builded vpon her owne heape, and the palace shall remaine after the maner thereof.
Jeremiah 30:19	And out of them shall proceede thankesgiuing, and the voyce of them that are ioyous, and I will multiplie them, and they shall not bee fewe: I will also glorifie them, and they shall not be diminished.
Jeremiah 30:20	Their children also shall be as afore time, and their congregation shall be established before me: and I will visite all that vexe them.
Jeremiah 30:21	And their noble ruler shall be of themselues, and their gouernour shall proceede from the middes of them, and I will cause him to draw neere, and approche vnto me: for who is this that directeth his heart to come vnto mee, saith the Lord?
Jeremiah 30:22	And ye shall be my people, and I will bee your God.
Jeremiah 30:23	Beholde, the tempest of the Lord goeth foorth with wrath: the whirlewinde that hangeth ouer, shall light vpon the head of the wicked.
Jeremiah 30:24	The fierce wrath of the Lord shall not returne, vntill he haue done, and vntill he haue performed the intents of his heart: in the latter dayes ye shall vnderstand it.
Jeremiah 31:1	At the same time, saith the Lord, will I be the God of all the families of Israel, and they shall be my people.
Jeremiah 31:2	Thus saith the Lord, The people which escaped the sworde, founde grace in the wildernes: he walked before Israel to cause him to rest.
Jeremiah 31:3	The Lord hath appeared vnto me of old, say they: Yea, I haue loued thee with an euerlasting loue, therefore with mercie I haue drawen thee.
Jeremiah 31:4	Againe I will builde thee, and thou shalt be builded, O virgine Israel: thou shalt stil be adorned with thy timbrels, and shalt goe foorth in the dance of them that be ioyfull.
Jeremiah 31:5	Thou shalt yet plant vines vpon the mountaines of Samaria, and the planters that plant them, shall make them common.
Jeremiah 31:6	For the dayes shall come that the watchmen vpon the mount of Ephraim shall cry, Arise, and let vs go vp vnto Zion to the Lord our God.
Jeremiah 31:7	For thus saith the Lord, Reioyce with gladnesse for Iaakob, and shoute for ioye among the chiefe of the Gentiles: publish praise, and say, O Lord, saue thy people, the remnant of Israel.
Jeremiah 31:8	Beholde, I will bring them from the North countrey, and gather them from the coastes of the world, with the blinde and the lame among them, with the woman with childe, and her that is deliuered also: a great companie shall returne hither.
Jeremiah 31:9	They shall come weeping, and with mercie will I bring them againe: I will lead them by the riuers of water in a straight way, wherein they shall not stumble: for I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my first borne.
Jeremiah 31:10	Heare the worde of the Lord, O ye Gentiles, and declare in the yles afarre off, and say, Hee that scattered Israel, wil gather him and wil keepe him, as a shepheard doeth his flocke.
Jeremiah 31:11	For the Lord hath redeemed Iaakob, and ransomed him from the hande of him, that was stronger then he.
Jeremiah 31:12	Therefore they shall come, and reioyce in the height of Zion, and shall runne to the bountifulnes of the Lord, euen for the wheat and for the wine, and for the oyle, and for the increase of sheepe, and bullocks: and their soule shalbe as a watered garden, and they shall haue no more sorow.
Jeremiah 31:13	Then shall ye virgine reioyce in the dance, and the yong men and the old men together: for I wil turne their mourning into ioy, and wil comfort them, and giue them ioy for their sorowes.
Jeremiah 31:14	And I wil replenish the soule of the Priests with fatnesse, and my people shalbe satisfied with my goodnesse, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 31:15	Thus saith the Lord, A voyce was heard on hie, a mourning and bitter weeping. Rahel weeping for her children, refused to be comforted for her children, because they were not.
Jeremiah 31:16	Thus saith the Lord, Refraine thy voyce from weeping, and thine eyes from teares: for thy worke shalbe rewarded, saith the Lord, and they shall come againe from the land of the enemie:
Jeremiah 31:17	And there is hope in thine ende, saith the Lord, that thy children shall come againe to their owne borders.
Jeremiah 31:18	I haue heard Ephraim lamenting thus, Thou hast corrected me, and I was chastised as an vntamed calfe: conuert thou me, and I shalbe conuerted: for thou art the Lord my God.
Jeremiah 31:19	Surely after that I conuerted, I repented: and after that I was instructed, I smote vpon my thigh: I was ashamed, yea, euen confounded, because I did beare the reproch of my youth.
Jeremiah 31:20	Is Ephraim my deare sonne or pleasant childe? yet since I spake vnto him, I still remembred him: therefore my bowels are troubled for him: I wil surely haue compassion vpon him, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 31:21	Set thee vp signes: make thee heapes: set thine heart towarde the path and way, that thou hast walked: turne againe, O virgine of Israel: turne againe to these thy cities.
Jeremiah 31:22	How long wilt thou goe astray, O thou rebellious daughter? for the Lord hath created a newe thing in the earth: A WOMAN shall compasse a man.
Jeremiah 31:23	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Yet shall they say this thing in the land of Iudah, and in the cities thereof, when I shall bring againe their captiuitie, The Lord blesse thee, O habitation of iustice and holy mountaine.
Jeremiah 31:24	And Iudah shall dwell in it, and all the cities thereof together, the husbandmen and they that goe foorth with the flocke.
Jeremiah 31:25	For I haue saciate the wearie soule, and I haue replenished euery sorowfull soule.
Jeremiah 31:26	Therefore I awaked and behelde, and my sleepe was sweete vnto me.
Jeremiah 31:27	Beholde, the dayes come, saith the Lord, that I will sowe the house of Israel, and the house of Iudah with the seede of man and with the seede of beast.
Jeremiah 31:28	And like as I haue watched vpon them, to plucke vp and to roote out, and to throw downe, and to destroy, and to plague them, so wil I watch ouer them, to build and to plant them, saith ye Lord.
Jeremiah 31:29	In those dayes shall they say no more, The fathers haue eaten a sowre grape, and the childrens teeth are set on edge.
Jeremiah 31:30	But euery one shall die for his owne iniquitie: euery man that eateth the sowre grape, his teeth shalbe set on edge.
Jeremiah 31:31	Beholde, the dayes come, saith the Lord, that I will make a new couenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Iudah,
Jeremiah 31:32	Not according to ye couenant that I made with their fathers, when I tooke them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, the which my couenant they brake, although I was an husband vnto them, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 31:33	But this shall be the couenant that I will make with the house of Israel, After those dayes, saith the Lord, I will put my Lawe in their inward partes, and write it in their hearts, and wil be their God, and they shalbe my people.
Jeremiah 31:34	And they shall teach no more euery man his neighbour and euery man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for they shall all know me from the least of them vnto the greatest of them, saith the Lord: for I wil forgiue their iniquitie, and will remember their sinnes no more.
Jeremiah 31:35	Thus saith the Lord, which giueth the sunne for a light to the day, and the courses of the moone and of the starres for a light to the night, which breaketh the sea, when the waues thereof roare: his Name is the Lord of hostes.
Jeremiah 31:36	If these ordinances depart out of my sight, saith the Lord, then shall the seede of Israel cease from being a nation before me, for euer.
Jeremiah 31:37	Thus saith the Lord, If the heauens can be measured, or the fundations of the earth be searched out beneath, then wil I cast off all the seed of Israel, for all that they haue done, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 31:38	Behold, the dayes come, saith the Lord, that the citie shalbe built to the Lord from the tower of Hananeel, vnto the gate of the corner.
Jeremiah 31:39	And the line of the measure shall go foorth in his presence vpon the hil Gareb, and shall compasse about to Goath.
Jeremiah 31:40	And the whole valley of the dead bodies, and of the ashes, and all the fields vnto the brooke of Kidron, and vnto the corner of the horsegate toward the East, shalbe holy vnto the Lord, neither shall it be plucked vp nor destroyed any more for euer.
Jeremiah 32:1	The worde that came vnto Ieremiah from the Lord, in the tenth yere of Zedekiah king of Iudah, which was the eightenth yeere of Nebuchad-nezzar.
Jeremiah 32:2	For then the King of Babels hoste besieged Ierusalem: And Ieremiah the Prophet was shutte vp in the court of the prison, which was in the King of Iudahs house.
Jeremiah 32:3	For Zedekiah King of Iudah had shut him vp, saying, Wherefore doest thou prophesie, and say, Thus saith the Lord, Beholde, I will giue this citie into the handes of the King of Babel, and he shall take it?
Jeremiah 32:4	And Zedekiah the King of Iudah shall not escape out of the hande of the Caldeans, but shall surely be deliuered into the handes of the King of Babel, and shall speake with him mouth to mouth, and his eyes shall beholde his face,
Jeremiah 32:5	And he shall lead Zedekiah to Babel, and there shall he be, vntil I visit him, saith ye Lord: though ye fight with the Caldeans, ye shall not prosper.
Jeremiah 32:6	And Ieremiah said, The word of the Lord came vnto me, saying,
Jeremiah 32:7	Beholde, Hanameel, the sonne of Shallum thine vncle, shall come vnto thee and say, Bye vnto thee my fielde, that is in Anathoth: for the title by kindred appertaineth vnto thee to bye it.
Jeremiah 32:8	So Hanameel, mine vncles sonne, came to mee in the court of the prison, according to the word of the Lord, and said vnto me, Bye my field, I pray thee, that is in Anathoth, which is in the countrey of Beniamin: for the right of the possession is thine, and the purchase belongeth vnto thee: bye it for thee. Then I knewe that this was the worde of the Lord.
Jeremiah 32:9	And I bought the field of Hanameel, mine vncles sonne, that was in Anathoth, and weighed him the siluer, euen seuen shekels, and tenne pieces of siluer.
Jeremiah 32:10	And I writ it in the booke and signed it, and tooke witnesses, and weighed him the siluer in the balances.
Jeremiah 32:11	So I tooke the booke of the possession, being sealed according to the Lawe, and custome, with the booke that was open,
Jeremiah 32:12	And I gaue the booke of the possession vnto Baruch the sonne of Neriah, the sonne of Maaseiah, in the sight of Hanameel mine vncles sonne, and in the presence of the witnesses, written in the booke of the possession, before al the Iewes that sate in the court of the prison.
Jeremiah 32:13	And I charged Baruch before them, saying,
Jeremiah 32:14	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Take the writings, euen this booke of the possession, both that is sealed, and this booke that is open, and put them in an earthen vessell, that they may continue a long time.
Jeremiah 32:15	For the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel saith thus, Houses and fieldes, and vineyardes shall be possessed againe in this land.
Jeremiah 32:16	Now when I had deliuered the booke of the possession vnto Baruch, the sonne of Neriah, I prayed vnto the Lord, saying,
Jeremiah 32:17	Ah Lord God, beholde, thou hast made the heauen and the earth by thy great power, and by thy stretched out arme, and there is nothing hard vnto thee.
Jeremiah 32:18	Thou shewest mercie vnto thousands, and recompensest the iniquitie of the fathers into the bosome of their children after them: O God the great and mightie, whose Name is ye Lord of hostes,
Jeremiah 32:19	Great in counsell, and mightie in worke, (for thine eyes are open vpon all the wayes of ye sonnes of men, to giue to euery one according to his wayes, and according to the fruite of his workes)
Jeremiah 32:20	Which hast set signes and wonders in the land of Egypt vnto this day, and in Israel, and among all men, and hast made thee a Name, as appeareth this day,
Jeremiah 32:21	And hast brought thy people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signes, and with wonders, and with a strong hand, with a stretched out arme, and with great terrour,
Jeremiah 32:22	And hast giuen them this land, which thou diddest sweare to their fathers to giue them, euen a land, that floweth with milke and hony,
Jeremiah 32:23	And they came in, and possessed it, but they obeyed not thy voyce, neither walked in thy Law: all that thou commaundedst them to doe, they haue not done: therefore thou hast caused this whole plague to come vpon them.
Jeremiah 32:24	Beholde, the mounts, they are come into the citie to take it, and the citie is giuen into the hande of the Caldeans, that fight against it by meanes of the sword, and of the famine, and of the pestilence, and what thou hast spoken, is come to passe, and beholde, thou seest it.
Jeremiah 32:25	And thou hast sayd vnto me, O Lord God, Bye vnto thee the fielde for siluer, and take witnesses: for the citie shall be giuen into the hand of the Caldeans.
Jeremiah 32:26	Then came the worde of the Lord vnto Ieremiah, saying,
Jeremiah 32:27	Beholde, I am the LORD GOD of all flesh: is there any thing too hard for me?
Jeremiah 32:28	Therefore thus saith the Lord, Beholde, I wil giue this citie into the hand of the Caldeans, and into the hand of Nebuchad-nezzar, King of Babel, and he shall take it.
Jeremiah 32:29	And the Caldeans shall come and fight against this citie, and set fire on this citie and burne it, with the houses, vpon whose rouses they haue offred incense vnto Baal, and powred drinke offrings vnto other gods, to prouoke me vnto anger.
Jeremiah 32:30	For the children of Israel, and the children of Iudah haue surely done euill before me from their youth: for the children of Israel haue surely prouoked me to anger with the workes of their hands, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 32:31	Therefore this citie hath bene vnto me as a prouocation of mine anger, and of my wrath, from the day, that they built it, euen vnto this day, that I should remoue it out of my sight,
Jeremiah 32:32	Because of all the euill of the children of Israel, and of the children of Iudah, which they haue done to prouoke mee to anger, euen they, their Kings, their Princes, their Priests, and their Prophets, and the men of Iudah, and the inhabitants of Ierusalem.
Jeremiah 32:33	And they haue turned vnto me the backe and not the face: though I taught them rising vp earely, and instructing them, yet they were not obedient to receiue doctrine,
Jeremiah 32:34	But they set their abominations in ye house (whereupon my Name was called) to defile it,
Jeremiah 32:35	And they built the hie places of Baal, which are in the valley of Ben-hinnom, to cause their sonnes and their daughters to passe through the fire vnto Molech, which I commanded them not, neither came it into my minde, that they should doe such abomination, to cause Iudah to sinne.
Jeremiah 32:36	And nowe therefore, thus hath the Lord God of Israel spoken, concerning this citie, whereof ye say, It shalbe deliuered into the hand of the King of Babel by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence,
Jeremiah 32:37	Beholde, I will gather them out of all countreys, wherein I haue scattered them in mine anger, and in my wrath, and in great indignation, and I wil bring them againe vnto this place, and I will cause them to dwell safely.
Jeremiah 32:38	And they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
Jeremiah 32:39	And I wil giue them one heart and one way that they may feare me for euer for ye wealth of them, and of their children after them.
Jeremiah 32:40	And I wil make an euerlasting couenant with them, that I wil neuer turne away from them to doe them good, but I wil put my feare in their hearts, that they shall not depart from me.
Jeremiah 32:41	Yea, I wil delite in them to do them good, and I wil plant them in this land assuredly with my whole heart, and with all my soule.
Jeremiah 32:42	For thus sayth the Lord, Like as I haue brought all this great plague vpon this people, so wil I bring vpon them all the good that I haue promised them.
Jeremiah 32:43	And the fields shalbe possessed in this land, whereof ye say, It is desolate without man or beast, and shalbe giuen into the hand of the Caldeans.
Jeremiah 32:44	Men shall buy fields for siluer, and make writings and seale them, and take witnesses in the land of Beniamin, and round about Ierusalem, and in the cities of Iudah, and in the cities of the mountaines, and in the cities of the plaine, and in the cities of the South: for I wil cause their captiuitie to returne, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 33:1	Moreover, the worde of the Lord came vnto Ieremiah the second time (while he was yet shut vp in the court of prison) saying,
Jeremiah 33:2	Thus sayth the Lord, the maker thereof, the Lord that formed it, and established it, the Lord is his Name.
Jeremiah 33:3	Call vnto me, and I will answere thee, and shewe thee great and mightie things, which thou knowest not.
Jeremiah 33:4	For thus saith the Lord God of Israel, concerning the houses of this citie, and concerning the houses of the Kings of Iudah, which are destroyed by the mounts, and by the sword,
Jeremiah 33:5	They come to fight with the Caldeans, but it is to fill themselues with the dead bodies of men, whome I haue slaine in mine anger and in my wrath: for I haue hid my face from this citie, because of all their wickednes.
Jeremiah 33:6	Behold, I will giue it health and amendment: for I wil cure them, and will reueile vnto them the abundance of peace, and trueth.
Jeremiah 33:7	And I wil cause the captiuitie of Iudah and the captiuitie of Israel to returne, and will build them as at the first.
Jeremiah 33:8	And I wil clense them from all their iniquitie, whereby they haue sinned against me: yea, I wil pardon all their iniquities, whereby they haue sinned against me, and whereby they haue rebelled against me.
Jeremiah 33:9	And it shalbe to me a name, a ioy, a praise, and an honour before all the nations of the earth, which shall heare all ye good that I doe vnto them: and they shall feare and tremble for all the goodnes, and for all the wealth, that I shew vnto this citie.
Jeremiah 33:10	Thus sayth the Lord, Againe there shalbe heard in this place (which ye say shalbe desolate, without man, and without beast, euen in the cities of Iudah, and in the streetes of Ierusalem, that are desolate without man, and without inhabitant, and without beast)
Jeremiah 33:11	The voyce of ioy and the voyce of gladnes, the voyce of the bridegrome, and the voyce of the bride, the voyce of them that shall say, Prayse the Lord of hostes, because the Lord is good: for his mercy endureth for euer, and of them that offer the sacrifice of prayse in the House of the Lord, for I will cause to returne the captiuitie of the land, as at the first, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 33:12	Thus sayth the Lord of hostes, Againe in this place, which is desolate, without man, and without beast, and in all the cities thereof there shall be dwelling for shepheards to rest their flockes.
Jeremiah 33:13	In the cities of the mountaines, in the cities in the plaine, and in the cities of the South, and in the land of Beniamin, and about Ierusalem, and in the cities of Iudah shall the sheepe passe againe, vnder the hand of him that telleth them, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 33:14	Beholde, the dayes come, sayth the Lord, that I wil performe that good thing, which I haue promised vnto the house of Israel, and to the house of Iudah.
Jeremiah 33:15	In those dayes and at that time, wil I cause the branch of righteousnesse to growe vp vnto Dauid, and he shall execute iudgement, and righteousnes in the land.
Jeremiah 33:16	In those dayes shall Iudah be saued, and Ierusalem shall dwell safely, and hee that shall call her, is the Lord our righteousnesse.
Jeremiah 33:17	For thus sayth the Lord, Dauid shall neuer want a man to sit vpon the throne of the house of Israel.
Jeremiah 33:18	Neither shall the Priests and Leuites want a man before me to offer burnt offerings, and to offer meat offerings, and to doe sacrifice continually.
Jeremiah 33:19	And the worde of the Lord came vnto Ieremiah, saying,
Jeremiah 33:20	Thus sayth the Lord, If you can breake my couenant of the day, and my couenant of the night, that there should not be day, and night in their season,
Jeremiah 33:21	Then may my couenant be broken with Dauid my seruant, that he should not haue a sonne to reigne vpon his throne, and with the Leuites, and Priests my ministers.
Jeremiah 33:22	As the army of heauen can not be nombred, neither the sand of the sea measured: so wil I multiplie the seede of Dauid my seruant, and the Leuites, that minister vnto me.
Jeremiah 33:23	Moreouer, the worde of the Lord came to Ieremiah, saying,
Jeremiah 33:24	Considerest thou not what this people haue spoken, saying, The two families, which the Lord hath chosen, hee hath euen cast them off? thus they haue despised my people, that they should be no more a nation before them.
Jeremiah 33:25	Thus sayth the Lord, If my couenant be not with day and night, and if I haue not appointed the order of heauen and earth,
Jeremiah 33:26	Then will I cast away the seede of Iaakob and Dauid my seruant, and not take of his seede to be rulers ouer the seede of Abraham, Izhak, and Iaakob: for I wil cause their captiuitie to returne, and haue compassion on them.
Jeremiah 34:1	The worde which came vnto Ieremiah from the Lord (when Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel, and all his hoste, and all the kingdomes of the earth, that were vnder the power of his hand, and all people fought against Ierusalem, and against all the cites thereof) saying,
Jeremiah 34:2	Thus sayth the Lord God of Israel, Goe, and speake to Zedekiah King of Iudah, and tell him, Thus sayth the Lord, Beholde, I will giue this citie into the hand of the King of Babel, and he shall burne it with fire,
Jeremiah 34:3	And thou shall not escape out of his hand, but shalt surely be taken, and deliuered into his hand, and thine eyes shall beholde the face of the King of Babel, and he shall speake with thee mouth to mouth, and thou shalt go to Babel.
Jeremiah 34:4	Yet heare the worde of the Lord, O Zedekiah, King of Iudah: thus sayth the Lord of thee, Thou shalt not dye by the sword,
Jeremiah 34:5	But thou shalt die in peace: and according to the burning for thy fathers the former Kings which were before thee, so shall they burne odours for thee, and they shall lament thee, saying, Oh lorde: for I haue pronounced the worde, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 34:6	Then Ieremiah the Prophet spake all these words vnto Zedekiah King of Iudah in Ierusalem,
Jeremiah 34:7	(When the King of Babels hoste fought against Ierusalem, and against all the cities of Iudah, that were left, euen against Lachish, and against Azekah: for these strong cities remained of the cities of Iudah)
Jeremiah 34:8	This is the worde that came vnto Ieremiah from the Lord, after that the King Zedekiah had made a couenant with all the people, which were at Ierusalem, to proclaime libertie vnto them,
Jeremiah 34:9	That euery man should let his seruant go free, and euery man his handmayde, which was an Ebrue or an Ebruesse, and that none should serue himselfe of them, to wit, of a Iewe his brother.
Jeremiah 34:10	Now when all the princes, and all the people which had agreed to the couenant, heard that euery one should let his seruant go free, and euery one his handmaide, and that none should serue them selues of them any more, they obeyed and let them go.
Jeremiah 34:11	But afterwarde they repented and caused the seruants and the handmayds, whom they had let go free, to returne, and helde them in subiection as seruants and handmayds.
Jeremiah 34:12	Therefore the worde of the Lord came vnto Ieremiah from the Lord, saying,
Jeremiah 34:13	Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I made a couenant with your fathers, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of seruants, saying,
Jeremiah 34:14	At the terme of seuen yeres let ye go, euery man his brother an Ebrewe which hath bene solde vnto thee: and when he hath serued the sixe yeres, thou shalt let him go free from thee: but your fathers obeyed me not, neither inclined their eares.
Jeremiah 34:15	And ye were nowe turned, and had done right in my sight in proclayming libertie, euery man to his neighbour, and ye had made a couenant before mee in the house, whereupon my Name is called.
Jeremiah 34:16	But ye repented, and polluted my Name: for ye haue caused euery man his seruant, and euery man his handmayde, whom ye had set at libertie at their pleasure, to returne, and holde them in subiection to bee vnto you as seruantes and as handmaydes.
Jeremiah 34:17	Therefore thus saith the Lord, Ye haue not obeyed mee, in proclayming freedome euery man to his brother, and euery man to his neighbour: beholde, I proclaime a libertie for you, saith the Lord, to the sworde, to the pestilence, and to the famine, and I will make you a terrour to all the kingdomes of the earth.
Jeremiah 34:18	And I will giue those men that haue broken my couenant, and haue not kept the wordes of the couenant, which they had made before me, when they cut the calfe in twaine, and passed betweene the partes thereof:
Jeremiah 34:19	The princes of Iudah, and the princes of Ierusalem, the Eunuches, and the Priestes, and all the people of the lande, which passed betweene the partes of the calfe,
Jeremiah 34:20	I wil euen giue them into the hand of their enemies, and into the handes of them that seeke their life: and their dead bodies shalbe for meate vnto the foules of the heauen, and to the beastes of the earth.
Jeremiah 34:21	And Zedekiah King of Iudah, and his princes will I giue into the hand of their enemies, and into the hande of them that seeke their life, and into the hande of the King of Babels hoste, which are gone vp from you.
Jeremiah 34:22	Beholde, I will commande, saith the Lord, and cause them to returne to this citie, and they shall fight against it, and take it, and burne it with fire: and I will make the cities of Iudah desolate without an inhabitant.
Jeremiah 35:1	The worde which came vnto Ieremiah from the Lord, in the dayes of Iehoiakim the sonne of Iosiah King of Iudah, saying,
Jeremiah 35:2	Go vnto the house of the Rechabites, and speake vnto them, and bring them into the house of the Lord into one of the chambers, and giue them wine to drinke.
Jeremiah 35:3	Then tooke I Iaazaniah, the sonne of Ieremiah the sonne of Habazziniah, and his brethren, and all his sonnes, and the whole house of the Rechabites,
Jeremiah 35:4	And I brought them into the House of the Lord, into the chamber of the sonnes of Hanan, the sonne of Igdaliah a man of God, which was by the chamber of the princes, which was aboue the chamber of Maaseiah the sonne of Shallum, the keeper of the treasure.
Jeremiah 35:5	And I set before the sonnes of the house of the Rechabites, pots full of wine, and cuppes, and said vnto them, Drinke wine.
Jeremiah 35:6	But they said, We will drinke no wine: for Ionadab the sonne of Rechab our father commanded vs, saying, Ye shall drinke no wine, neither you nor your sonnes for euer.
Jeremiah 35:7	Neither shall ye build house, nor sow seede, nor plant vineyarde, nor haue any, but all your dayes ye shall dwell in tentes, that ye may liue a long time in the land where ye be strangers.
Jeremiah 35:8	Thus haue wee obeyed the voyce of Ionadab the sonne of Rechab our father, in all that he hath charged vs, and wee drinke no wine all our dayes, neither wee, our wiues, our sonnes, nor our daughters.
Jeremiah 35:9	Neither builde wee houses for vs to dwell in, neither haue we vineyard, nor fielde, nor seede,
Jeremiah 35:10	But we haue remained in tentes, and haue obeyed, and done according to all that Ionadab our father commanded vs.
Jeremiah 35:11	But when Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel came vp into the land, we said, Come, and let vs go to Ierusalem, from the hoste of the Caldeans, and from the host of Aram: so we dwel at Ierusalem.
Jeremiah 35:12	Then came the word of the Lord vnto Ieremiah, saying,
Jeremiah 35:13	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Goe, and tell the men of Iudah, and the inhabitants of Ierusalem, Will ye not receiue doctrine to obey my wordes, saith the Lord?
Jeremiah 35:14	The commandement of Ionadab the sonne of Rechab that hee commanded his sonnes, that they should drinke no wine, is surely kept: for vnto this day they drinke none, but obey their fathers commandement: notwithstanding I haue spoken vnto you, rising earely, and speaking, but ye would not obey me.
Jeremiah 35:15	I haue sent also vnto you all my seruants the Prophetes, rising vp earely, and sending, them, saying, Returne nowe euery man from his euill way, and amende your workes, and goe not after other gods to serue them, and ye shall dwel in the lande which I haue giuen vnto you, and to your fathers, but ye would not encline your eare, nor obey mee.
Jeremiah 35:16	Surely the sonnes of Ionadab the sonne of Rechab, haue kept the commandement of their father, which he gaue them, but this people hath not obeyed me.
Jeremiah 35:17	Therefore thus saith the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Beholde, I will bring vpon Iudah, and vpon all the inhabitants of Ierusalem, all the euill that I haue pronounced against them, because I haue spoke vnto them, but they would not heare, and I haue called vnto them, but they would not answere.
Jeremiah 35:18	And Ieremiah said to the house of the Rechabites, Thus saith the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, Because ye haue obeyed the commandement of Ionadab your father, and kept all his precepts, and done according vnto all that hee hath commanded you,
Jeremiah 35:19	Therefore thus saith the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Ionadab the sonne of Rechab shall not want a man, to stand before me for euer.
Jeremiah 36:1	And in the fourth yeere of Iehoiakim the sonne of Iosiah King of Iudah, came this word vnto Ieremiah from the Lord, saying,
Jeremiah 36:2	Take thee a roule or booke, and write therein all the wordes that I haue spoken to thee against Israel, and against Iudah, and against all the nations, from the day that I spake vnto thee, euen from the dayes of Iosiah vnto this day.
Jeremiah 36:3	It may bee that the House of Iudah will heare of all the euill, which I determined to doe vnto them that they may returne euery man from his euil way, that I may forgiue their iniquitie and their sinnes.
Jeremiah 36:4	Then Ieremiah called Baruch the sonne of Neriah, and Baruch wrote at the mouth of Ieremiah all the wordes of the Lord, which hee had spoken vnto him, vpon a roule or booke.
Jeremiah 36:5	And Ieremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am shut vp, and can not go into the House of the Lord.
Jeremiah 36:6	Therefore goe thou, and reade the roule wherein thou hast written at my mouth the words of the Lord in the audience of the people in the Lordes House vpon the fasting day: also thou shalt reade them in the hearing of all Iudah, that come out of their cities.
Jeremiah 36:7	It may be that they will pray before the Lord, and euery one returne from his euill way, for great is the anger and the wrath, that the Lord hath declared against this people.
Jeremiah 36:8	So Baruch the sonne of Neriah did according vnto all, that Ieremiah the Prophet commanded him, reading in the booke the wordes of the Lord in the Lords House.
Jeremiah 36:9	And in the fift yeere of Iehoiakim the sonne of Iosiah King of Iudah, in the ninth moneth, they proclaimed a fast before the Lord to all the people in Ierusalem, and to all the people that came from the cities of Iudah vnto Ierusalem.
Jeremiah 36:10	Then read Baruch in the booke the wordes of Ieremiah in the house of the Lord, in the chamber of Gemariah the sonne of Shaphan the secretarie, in the hier court at the entrie of the new gate of the Lordes house, in the hearing of all the people.
Jeremiah 36:11	When Michaiah the sonne of Gemariah, the sonne of Shaphan had heard out of the booke all the wordes of the Lord,
Jeremiah 36:12	Then hee went downe to the Kings house into the Chancellours chamber, and loe, all the princes sate there, euen Elishama the Chancellour, and Delaiah the sonne of Shemaiah, and Elnathan the sonne of Achbor, and Gemariah the sonne of Shaphan, and Zedekiah the sonne of Hananiah, and all the princes.
Jeremiah 36:13	Then Michaiah declared vnto them all the wordes that he had heard when Baruch read in the booke in the audience of the people.
Jeremiah 36:14	Therefore all the princes sent Iehudi the sonne of Nethaniah, the sonne of Shelemiah, the sonne of Chushi, vnto Baruch, saying, Take in thine hande the roule, wherein thou hast read in the audience of the people, and come. So Baruch the sonne of Neriah, tooke the roule in his hand, and came vnto them.
Jeremiah 36:15	And they saide vnto him, Sit downe now, and reade it, that we may heare. So Baruch read it in their audience.
Jeremiah 36:16	Now when they had heard all the wordes, they were afraid both one and other, and said vnto Baruch, We will certifie the King of all these wordes.
Jeremiah 36:17	And they examined Baruch, saying, Tell vs nowe, howe diddest thou write all these wordes at his mouth?
Jeremiah 36:18	Then Baruch answered them, He pronounced all these wordes vnto me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ynke in the booke.
Jeremiah 36:19	Then saide the princes vnto Baruch, Goe, hide thee, thou and Ieremiah, and let no man knowe where ye be.
Jeremiah 36:20	And they went in to the King to the court, but they layde vp the roule in the chamber of Elishama the Chancellour and tolde the King all the wordes, that he might heare.
Jeremiah 36:21	So the King sent Iehudi to fet the roule, and he tooke it out of Elishama the Chancellours chamber, and Iehudi read it in the audience of the King, and in the audience of all the princes, which stoode beside the King.
Jeremiah 36:22	Nowe the King sate in the winter House, in the ninth moneth, and there was a fire burning before him.
Jeremiah 36:23	And when Iehudi had read three, or foure sides, hee cut it with the penknife and cast it into the fire, that was on the hearth vntil all the roule was consumed in the fire, that was on the hearth.
Jeremiah 36:24	Yet they were not afraide, nor rent their garmets, neither the King, nor any of his seruants, that heard all these wordes.
Jeremiah 36:25	Neuerthelesse, Elnathan, and Delaiah, and Gemariah had besought the King, that he would not burne ye roule: but he would not heare them.
Jeremiah 36:26	But the King commanded Ierahmeel the sonne of Hammelech, and Seraiah the sonne of Azriel, and Shelemiah the sonne of Abdiel, to take Baruch the scribe, and Ieremiah the Prophet, but the Lord hid them.
Jeremiah 36:27	Then the word of the Lord came to Ieremiah (after that the King had burnt the roule and the words which Baruch wrote at the mouth of Ieremiah) saying,
Jeremiah 36:28	Take thee againe another roule and write in it all ye former words that were in the first roule which Iehoiakim the King of Iudah hath burnt,
Jeremiah 36:29	And thou shalt say to Iehoiakim King of Iudah, Thus saith the Lord, Thou hast burnt this roule, saying, Why hast thou written therein, saying, that the King of Babel shall certainly come and destroye this land, and shall take thence both man and beast?
Jeremiah 36:30	Therefore thus saith the Lord of Iehoiakim King of Iudah, Hee shall haue none to sit vpon the throne of Dauid, and his dead body shall be cast out in the day to the heate, and in the night to the frost.
Jeremiah 36:31	And I will visite him and his seede, and his seruants for their iniquitie, and I will bring vpon them, and vpon the inhabitants of Ierusalem, and vpon the men of Iudah all the euil that I haue pronounced against them: but they would not heare.
Jeremiah 36:32	Then tooke Ieremiah another roule, and gaue it Baruch the scribe the sonne of Neriah, which wrote therein at the mouth of Ieremiah all the wordes of the booke which Iehoiakim King of Iudah had burnt in the fire, and there were added besides them many like wordes.
Jeremiah 37:1	And King Zedekiah the sonne of Iosiah reigned for Coniah the sonne of Iehoiakim, whome Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel made King in the land of Iudah.
Jeremiah 37:2	But neither he, nor his seruants, nor the people of the land would obey the wordes of the Lord, which he spake by the ministerie of the Prophet Ieremiah.
Jeremiah 37:3	And Zedekiah the King sent Iehucal the sonne of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the sonne of Maaseiah the Priest to the Prophet Ieremiah, saying, Pray now vnto the Lord our God for vs.
Jeremiah 37:4	(Now Ieremiah went in and out among the people: for they had not put him into the prison.
Jeremiah 37:5	Then Pharaohs hoste was come out of Egypt: and when the Caldeans that besieged Ierusalem, heard tidings of them, they departed from Ierusalem)
Jeremiah 37:6	Then came the worde of the Lord vnto the Prophet Ieremiah, saying,
Jeremiah 37:7	Thus sayth the Lord God of Israel, Thus shall ye say to the King of Iudah, that sent you vnto me to inquire of me, Behold, Pharaohs hoste, which is come forth to helpe you, shall returne to Egypt into their owne land.
Jeremiah 37:8	And the Caldeans shall come againe, and fight against this citie, and take it and burne it with fire.
Jeremiah 37:9	Thus sayth the Lord, Deceiue not your selues, saying, The Caldeans shall surely depart from vs: for they shall not depart.
Jeremiah 37:10	For though ye had smitten the whole hoste of the Caldeans that fight against you, and there remained but wounded men among them, yet should euery man rise vp in his tent, and burne this citie with fire.
Jeremiah 37:11	When the hoste of the Caldeans was broken vp from Ierusalem, because of Pharaohs armie,
Jeremiah 37:12	Then Ieremiah went out of Ierusalem to goe into the land of Beniamin, separating himselfe thence from among the people.
Jeremiah 37:13	And when hee was in the gate of Beniamin, there was a chiefe officer, whose name was Iriiah, the sonne of Shelemiah, the sonne of Hananiah, and he tooke Ieremiah the Prophet, saying, Thou fleest to the Caldeans.
Jeremiah 37:14	Then sayde Ieremiah, That is false, I flee not to the Caldeans: but he would not heare him: so Iriiah tooke Ieremiah, and brought him to the princes.
Jeremiah 37:15	Wherefore the princes were angry with Ieremiah, and smote him, and layde him in prison in the house of Iehonathan the scribe: for they had made that the prison.
Jeremiah 37:16	When Ieremiah was entred into the dungeon, and into the prisons, and had remained there a long time,
Jeremiah 37:17	Then Zedekiah the King sent, and tooke him out, and the King asked him secretly in his house, and said, Is there any worde from the Lord? And Ieremiah sayd, Yea: for, sayd he, thou shalt be deliuered into the hand of the King of Babel.
Jeremiah 37:18	Moreouer, Ieremiah sayd vnto King Zedekiah, What haue I offended against thee, or against thy seruants, or against this people, that ye haue put me in prison?
Jeremiah 37:19	Where are nowe your prophets, which prophecied vnto you, saying, The King of Babel shall not come against you, nor against this land?
Jeremiah 37:20	Therefore heare nowe, I pray thee, O my lorde the King: let my prayer be accepted before thee, that thou cause mee not to returne to the house of Iehonathan the scribe, least I die there.
Jeremiah 37:21	Then Zedekiah the King commanded, that they should put Ieremiah in the court of the prison, and that they should giue him dayly a piece of bread out of the bakers streete vntill all the bread in the citie were eaten vp. Thus Ieremiah remained in the court of the prison.
Jeremiah 38:1	Then Shephatiah the sonne of Mattan, and Gedaliah the sonne of Pashur, and Iucal the sonne of Shelemiah, and Pashur the sonne of Malchiah, heard the wordes that Ieremiah had spoken vnto all the people, saying,
Jeremiah 38:2	Thus sayth the Lord, He that remaineth in this citie, shall dye by the sworde, by the famine and by the pestilence: but hee that goeth foorth to the Caldeans, shall liue: for he shall haue his life for a praye, and shall liue.
Jeremiah 38:3	Thus sayth the Lord, This citie shall surely be giuen into the hand of the King of Babels armie, which shall take it.
Jeremiah 38:4	Therefore the Princes sayd vnto the King, We beseech you, let this man be put to death: for thus hee weakeneth the hands of the men of warre that remaine in this citie, and the hands of all the people, in speaking such wordes vnto them: for this man seeketh not the wealth of this people, but the hurt.
Jeremiah 38:5	Then Zedekiah the King sayd, Behold, he is in your hands, for ye King can denie you nothing.
Jeremiah 38:6	Then tooke they Ieremiah, and cast him into the dungeon of Malchiah the sonne of Hammelech, that was in the court of the prison: and they let downe Ieremiah with coards: and in the dungeon there was no water but myre: so Ieremiah stacke fast in the myre.
Jeremiah 38:7	Now when Ebed-melech ye blacke More one of ye Eunuches, which was in the kings house, heard that they had put Ieremiah in the dungeon (then the King sate in the gate of Beniamin)
Jeremiah 38:8	And Ebed-melech went out of the Kings house, and spake to the King, saying,
Jeremiah 38:9	My lorde the King, these men haue done euill in all that they haue done to Ieremiah the Prophet, whom they haue cast into the dungeon, and he dyeth for hunger in the place where he is: for there is no more bread in the citie.
Jeremiah 38:10	Then the King commanded Ebed-melech the blacke More, saying, Take from hence thirtie men with thee, and take Ieremiah the Prophet out of the dungeon before he dye.
Jeremiah 38:11	So Ebed-melech tooke the men with him and went to the house of the King vnder the treasurie, and tooke there olde rotten ragges, and olde worne cloutes, and let them downe by coards into the dungeon to Ieremiah.
Jeremiah 38:12	And Ebed-melech the blacke More sayde vnto Ieremiah, Put now these olde rotten ragges and worne, vnder thine arme holes, betweene the coards. And Ieremiah did so.
Jeremiah 38:13	So they drewe vp Ieremiah with coards and tooke him vp out of the dungeon, and Ieremiah remained in the court of the prison.
Jeremiah 38:14	Then Zedekiah the King sent, and tooke Ieremiah the Prophet vnto him, into the thirde entrie that is in the House of the Lord, and the King sayd vnto Ieremiah, I wil aske thee a thing: hide nothing from me.
Jeremiah 38:15	Then Ieremiah sayd to Zedekiah, If I declare it vnto thee, wilt not thou slay me? and if I giue thee counsell, thou wilt not heare me.
Jeremiah 38:16	So the King sware secretly vnto Ieremiah, saying, As the Lord liueth that made vs these soules, I will not slay thee, nor giue thee into the hands of those men that seeke thy life.
Jeremiah 38:17	Then sayd Ieremiah vnto Zedekiah, Thus sayth the Lord God of hostes, the God of Israel, If thou wilt goe foorth vnto the King of Babels princes, then thy soule shall liue, and this citie shall not be burnt vp with fire, and thou shalt liue, and thine house.
Jeremiah 38:18	But if thou wilt not go forth to the King of Babels princes, then shall this citie be giuen into the hand of ye Caldeans, and they shall burne it with fire, and thou shalt not escape out of their hands.
Jeremiah 38:19	And Zedekiah the King sayde vnto Ieremiah, I am carefull for the Iewes that are fled vnto the Caldeans, least they deliuer mee into their hands, and they mocke me.
Jeremiah 38:20	But Ieremiah sayd, They shall not deliuer thee: hearken vnto the voyce of the Lord, I beseech thee, which I speake vnto thee: so shall it be well vnto thee, and thy soule shall liue.
Jeremiah 38:21	But if thou wilt refuse to go forth, this is the worde that the Lord hath shewed me.
Jeremiah 38:22	And beholde, all the women that are left in the King of Iudahs house, shalbe brought forth to the King of Babels princes: and those women shall say, Thy friends haue perswaded thee, and haue preuailed against thee: thy feete are fastened in the myre, and they are turned backe.
Jeremiah 38:23	So they shall bring out all thy wiues, and thy children to the Caldeans, and thou shalt not escape out of their hands, but shalt be taken by the hand of the King of Babel: and this citie shalt thou cause to be burnt with fire.
Jeremiah 38:24	Then said Zedekiah vnto Ieremiah, Let no man know of these words, and thou shalt not die.
Jeremiah 38:25	But if ye princes vnderstand that I haue talked with thee, and they come vnto thee, and say vnto thee, Declare vnto vs nowe, what thou hast sayde vnto the King, hide it not from vs, and we will not slay thee: also what the King sayd vnto thee,
Jeremiah 38:26	Then shalt thou say vnto them, I humbly besought the King that he would not cause me to returne to Iehonathans house, to die there.
Jeremiah 38:27	Then came all the princes vnto Ieremiah and asked him. And he tolde them according to all these wordes that the King had commanded: so they left off speaking with him, for the matter was not perceiued.
Jeremiah 38:28	So Ieremiah abode still in the court of the prison, vntill the day that Ierusalem was taken: and he was there, when Ierusalem was taken.
Jeremiah 39:1	In the ninth yeere of Zedekiah King of Iudah in the tenth moneth, came Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel and all his hoste against Ierusalem, and they besieged it.
Jeremiah 39:2	And in the eleuenth yeere of Zedekiah in the fourth moneth, the ninth day of the moneth, the citie was broken vp.
Jeremiah 39:3	And all the princes of the King of Babel came in, and sate in the middle gate, euen Neregal, Sharezer, Samgar-nebo, Sarsechim, Rab-saris, Neregal, Sharezer, Rab-mag with all the residue of the princes of the King of Babel.
Jeremiah 39:4	And when Zedekiah the King of Iudah saw them, and all the men of warre, then they fled, and went out of the citie by night, through the Kings garden, and by the gate betweene the two walles, and he went toward the wildernes.
Jeremiah 39:5	But the Caldeans hoste pursued after them, and ouertooke Zedekiah in the desart of Iericho: and when they had taken him, they brought him to Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel vnto Riblah in the land of Hamath, where he gaue iudgement vpon him.
Jeremiah 39:6	Then the King of Babel slewe the sonnes of Zedekiah in Riblah before his eyes: also the King of Babel slewe all the nobles of Iudah.
Jeremiah 39:7	Moreouer he put out Zedekiahs eyes, and bound him in chaines, to cary him to Babel.
Jeremiah 39:8	And the Caldeans burnt the Kings house, and the houses of the people with fire, and brake downe the walles of Ierusalem.
Jeremiah 39:9	Then Nebuzar-adan the chiefe stewarde caried away captiue into Babel the remnant of the people, that remained in the citie, and those that were fled and fallen vnto him, with the rest of the people that remained.
Jeremiah 39:10	But Nebuzar-adan the chiefe steward left the poore that had nothing in the land of Iudah, and gaue them vineyards and fieldes at the same time.
Jeremiah 39:11	Nowe Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel gaue charge concerning Ieremiah vnto Nebuzar-adan the chiefe stewarde, saying,
Jeremiah 39:12	Take him, and looke well to him, and doe him no harme, but doe vnto him euen as he shall say vnto thee.
Jeremiah 39:13	So Nebuzar-adan the chiefe steward sent, and Nebushazban, Rabsaris, and Neregal, Sharezar, Rab-mag, and all the King of Babels princes:
Jeremiah 39:14	Euen they sent, and tooke Ieremiah out of the court of the prison, and committed him vnto Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam the sonne of Shaphan, that he should cary him home: so he dwelt among the people.
Jeremiah 39:15	Now the worde of the Lord came vnto Ieremiah, while he was shut vp in the court of the prison, saying,
Jeremiah 39:16	Go and speake to Ebed-melech the blacke More, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, Beholde, I wil bring my wordes vpon this citie for euill, and not for good, and they shalbe accomplished in that day before thee.
Jeremiah 39:17	But I wil deliuer thee in that day, saith the Lord, and thou shalt not be giuen into the hand of the men whome thou fearest.
Jeremiah 39:18	For I will surely deliuer thee, and thou shalt not fall by the sworde, but thy life shall be for a praye vnto thee, because thou hast put thy trust in me, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 40:1	The worde which came to Ieremiah from the Lord after that Nebuzar-adan the chiefe stewarde had let him goe from Ramath, when hee had taken him being bound in chaines among all that were caried away captiue of Ierusalem and Iudah, which were caried away captiue vnto Babel.
Jeremiah 40:2	And the chiefe stewarde tooke Ieremiah, and said vnto him, The Lord thy God hath pronounced this plague vpon this place.
Jeremiah 40:3	Nowe the Lord hath brought it, and done according as he hath said: because ye haue sinned against the Lord, and haue not obeyed his voyce, therefore this thing is come vpon you.
Jeremiah 40:4	And nowe beholde, I loose thee this day from the chaines which were on thine handes, if it please thee to come with me into Babel, come, and I will looke well vnto thee: but if it please thee not to come with mee into Babel, tarie still: beholde, all the lande is before thee: whither it seemeth good, and conuenient for thee to goe, thither goe.
Jeremiah 40:5	For yet he was not returned: therefore he said, Returne to Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam, the sonne of Shaphan, whom the King of Babel hath made gouernour ouer all the cities of Iudah, and dwell with him among the people, or goe wheresoeuer it pleaseth thee to goe. So the chiefe stewarde gaue him vitailes and a rewarde, and let him goe.
Jeremiah 40:6	Then went Ieremiah vnto Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam, to Mizpah, and dwelt there with him among the people that were left in the lande.
Jeremiah 40:7	Nowe when all the captaines of the hoste, which were in the fieldes, euen they and their men heard, that the King of Babel had made Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam gouernour in the land, and that he had committed vnto him, men, and women, and children, and of the poore of the lande, that were not caried away captiue to Babel,
Jeremiah 40:8	Then they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, euen Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah, and Iohanan, and Ionathan the sonnes of Kareah, and Seraiah the sonne of Tanehumeth, and the sonnes of Ephai, the Netophathite, and Iezaniah the sonne of Maachathi, they and their men.
Jeremiah 40:9	And Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam, the sonne of Shaphan sware vnto them, and to their men, saying, Feare not to serue the Caldeans: dwell in the lande, and serue the King of Babel, and it shall be well with you.
Jeremiah 40:10	As for me, Beholde, I will dwell at Mizpah to serue the Caldeans, which will come vnto vs: but you, gather you wine, and sommer fruites, and oyle, and put them in your vessels, and dwell in your cities, that ye haue taken.
Jeremiah 40:11	Likewise when all the Iewes that were in Moab, and among the Ammonites, and in Edom, and that were in all the countries, heard that the King of Babel had left a remnant of Iudah, and that he had set ouer them Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam the sonne of Shaphan,
Jeremiah 40:12	Euen all the Iewes returned out of all places where they were driuen, and came to the land of Iudah to Gedaliah vnto Mizpah, and gathered wine and sommer fruites, very much.
Jeremiah 40:13	Moreouer Iohanan the sonne of Kareah, and all the captaines of the hoste, that were in the fieldes, came to Gedaliah to Mizpah,
Jeremiah 40:14	And said vnto him, Knowest thou not that Baalis the King of the Ammonites hath sent Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah to slay thee? But Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam beleeued them not.
Jeremiah 40:15	Then Iohanan the sonne of Kareah spake to Gedaliah in Mizpah secretly, saying, Let me goe, I pray thee, and I will slay Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah, and no man shall know it. Wherefore should he kill thee, that all the Iewes, which are gathered vnto thee, shoulde be scattered, and the remnant in Iudah perish?
Jeremiah 40:16	But Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam said vnto Iohanan the sonne of Kareah, Thou shalt not doe this thing: for thou speakest falsely of Ishmael.
Jeremiah 41:1	But in the seuenth moneth came Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah, the sonne of Elishama of the seede royall, and the princes of the King, and tenne men with him, vnto Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam to Mizpah, and there they did eate bread together in Mizpah.
Jeremiah 41:2	Then arose Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah with these tenne men that were with him, and smote Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam the sonne of Shaphan with the sword, and slewe him, whom the King of Babel had made gouernour ouer the lande.
Jeremiah 41:3	Ishmael also slewe all the Iewes that were with Gedaliah at Mizpah, and all the Caldeans that were found there, and the men of warre.
Jeremiah 41:4	Now the second day that he had slaine Gedaliah, and no man knewe it,
Jeremiah 41:5	There came men from Shechem, from Shiloh, and from Samaria, euen fourescore men, hauing their beardes shauen, and their clothes rent and cut, with offerings and incense in their hands to offer in the house of the Lord.
Jeremiah 41:6	And Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah went forth from Mizpah to meete them, weeping as he went: and when he met them, he said vnto them, Come to Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam.
Jeremiah 41:7	And when they came into the middes of the citie, Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah slewe them, and cast them into the middes of the pit, he and the men that were with him.
Jeremiah 41:8	But tenne men were founde among them, that saide vnto Ishmael, Slay vs not: for we haue treasures in the fielde, of wheate, and of barley, and of oyle, and of honie: so he stayed, and slew them not among their brethren.
Jeremiah 41:9	Now the pit wherein Ishmael had cast the dead bodies of the men (whom he had slayne because of Gedaliah) is it, which Asa the King had made because of Basha King of Israel, and Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah filled it with them that were slaine.
Jeremiah 41:10	Then Ishmael caryed away captiue all the residue of the people that were in Mizpah, euen the Kings daughters, and all the people that remained in Mizpah, whom Nebuzar-adan the chiefe steward had committed to Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam, and Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah caried them away captiue, and departed to goe ouer to the Ammonites.
Jeremiah 41:11	But when Iohanan the sonne of Kareah, and all the captaines of the hoste that were with him, heard of all the euill that Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah had done,
Jeremiah 41:12	Then they all tooke their men, and went to fight with Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah, and founde him by ye great waters that are in Gibeon.
Jeremiah 41:13	Nowe when all the people whom Ishmael caryed away captiue, sawe Iohanan the sonne of Kareah, and all the captaines of the hoste, that were with him, they were glad.
Jeremiah 41:14	So all the people, that Ishmael had caryed away captiue from Mizpah, returned and came againe, and went vnto Iohanan the sonne of Kareah.
Jeremiah 41:15	But Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah, escaped from Iohanan with eight men, and went to the Ammonites.
Jeremiah 41:16	Then tooke Iohanan the sonne of Kareah, and all the captaines of the hoste that were with him, all the remnant of the people, whom Ishmael the sonne of Nethaniah had caried away captiue from Mizpah, (after that he had slaine Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam) euen the strong men of warre, and the women, and the children, and the eunuches, whom hee had brought againe from Gibeon:
Jeremiah 41:17	And they departed and dwelt in Geruth Chimham, which is by Beth-lehem, to goe and to enter into Egypt,
Jeremiah 41:18	Because of the Caldeans: for they feared them, because Ishmael ye sonne of Nethaniah had slaine Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam, whom the King of Babel made gouernour in the land.
Jeremiah 42:1	Then all the captaines of the hoste, and Iohanan the sonne of Kareah, and Iezaniah the sonne of Hoshaaiah, and all the people from the least vnto the most came,
Jeremiah 42:2	And saide vnto Ieremiah the Prophete, Heare our prayer, we beseeche thee, and pray for vs vnto the Lord thy God, euen for all this remnant (for we are left, but a fewe of many, as thine eyes doe beholde)
Jeremiah 42:3	That the Lord thy God may shewe vs the way wherein wee may walke, and the thing that we may doe.
Jeremiah 42:4	Then Ieremiah the Prophet said vnto them, I haue heard you: behold, I will pray vnto ye Lord your God according to your wordes, and whatsoeuer thing the Lord shall answere you, I will declare it vnto you: I will keepe nothing backe from you.
Jeremiah 42:5	Then they said to Ieremiah, The Lord be a witnesse of trueth, and faith betweene vs, if we doe not, euen according to all things for ye which the Lord thy God shall send thee to vs.
Jeremiah 42:6	Whether it be good or euill, we will obey the voyce of the Lord God, to whom we sende thee that it may be well with vs, when wee obey the voyce of the Lord our God.
Jeremiah 42:7	And so after ten dayes came the word of the Lord vnto Ieremiah.
Jeremiah 42:8	Then called he Iohanan the sonne of Kareah, and all the captaines of the hoste, which were with him, and all ye people from ye least to the most,
Jeremiah 42:9	And saide vnto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, vnto whom ye sent me to present your prayers before him,
Jeremiah 42:10	If ye will dwell in this land, then I wil build you, and not destroy you, and I will plant you, and not roote you out: for I repent me of the euill that I haue done vnto you.
Jeremiah 42:11	Feare not for the King of Babel, of whom ye are afraide: be not afraid of him, saith the Lord: for I am with you, to saue you, and to deliuer you from his hand,
Jeremiah 42:12	And I will graunt you mercie that he may haue compassion vpon you, and he shall cause you to dwell in your owne land.
Jeremiah 42:13	But if ye say, We will not dwell in this land, neither heare the voyce of the Lord your God,
Jeremiah 42:14	Saying, Nay, but we will goe into the land of Egypt, where we shall see no warre, nor heare the sounde of the trumpet, nor haue hunger of bread, and there will we dwell,
Jeremiah 42:15	(And nowe therefore heare the worde of the Lord, ye remnant of Iudah: thus sayeth the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, If ye set your faces to enter into Egypt, and goe to dwell there)
Jeremiah 42:16	Then the sworde that ye feared, shall take you there in the land of Egypt, and the famine, for the which ye care, shall there hang vpon you in Egypt, and there shall ye die.
Jeremiah 42:17	And all the men that set their faces to enter into Egypt to dwell there, shall die by ye sword, by the famine and by the pestilence, and none of them shall remaine nor escape from the plague, that I will bring vpon them.
Jeremiah 42:18	For thus saith the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, As mine anger and my wrath hath bene powred foorth vpon the inhabitants of Ierusalem: so shall my wrath be powred foorth vpon you, when ye shall enter into Egypt, and ye shall be a detestation, and an astonishment, and a curse and a reproche, and ye shall see this place no more.
Jeremiah 42:19	O ye remnant of Iudah, the Lord hath said concerning you, Goe not into Egypt: knowe certeinely that I haue admonished you this day.
Jeremiah 42:20	Surely ye dissembled in your hearts When ye sent me vnto the Lord your God, saying, Pray for vs vnto the Lord our God, and declare vnto vs euen according vnto al that the Lord our God shall say, and we will doe it.
Jeremiah 42:21	Therefore I haue this day declared it you, but you haue not obeyed the voyce of the Lord your God, nor any thing for the which he hath sent me vnto you.
Jeremiah 42:22	Nowe therefore, knowe certeinely that ye shall die by the sworde, by the famine, and by the pestilence, in the place whither ye desire to goe and dwell.
Jeremiah 43:1	Nowe when Ieremiah had made an ende of speaking vnto ye whole people all the wordes of the Lord their God, for the which the Lord their God had sent him to them, euen all these wordes,
Jeremiah 43:2	Then spake Azariah the sonne of Hoshaiah, and Iohanan the sonne of Kareah, and all the proude men, saying vnto Ieremiah, Thou speakest falsely: the Lord our God hath not sent thee to say, Goe not into Egypt to dwell there,
Jeremiah 43:3	But Baruch ye sonne of Neriah prouoketh thee against vs, for to deliuer vs into the hand of the Caldeans, that they might slay vs, and cary vs away captiues into Babel.
Jeremiah 43:4	So Iohanan the sonne of Kareah, and all the captaines of the hoste, and all the people obeied not the voyce of the Lord, to dwell in the lande of Iudah.
Jeremiah 43:5	But Iohanan the sonne of Kareah, and all the captaines of the hoste tooke all the remnant of Iudah, that were returned from al nations, whither they had bene driuen, to dwel in ye land of Iudah:
Jeremiah 43:6	Euen men and women, and children, and the Kinges daughters, and euery person, that Nebuzar-adan the chiefe steward had left with Gedaliah the sonne of Ahikam, ye sonne of Shaphan, and Ieremiah the Prophet, and Baruch the sonne of Neriah.
Jeremiah 43:7	So they came into the lande of Egypt: for they obeied not the voice of the Lord: thus came they to Tahpanhes.
Jeremiah 43:8	Then came the worde of the Lord vnto Ieremiah in Tahpanhes, saying,
Jeremiah 43:9	Take great stones in thine hand, and hide them in the claie in the bricke kill, which is at the entrie of Pharaohs house in Tanpanhes in ye sight of the men of Iudah,
Jeremiah 43:10	And say vnto them, Thus sayeth the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, Beholde, I will sende and bring Nebuchad-nezzar the King of Babel my seruant, and will set his throne vpon these stones that I haue hid, and he shall spread his pauilion ouer them.
Jeremiah 43:11	And when he shall come, he shall smite the land of Egypt: such as are appoynted for death, to death, and such as are for captiuitie, to captiuitie, and such as are for the sword to the sword.
Jeremiah 43:12	And I wil kindle a fire in the houses of the gods of Egypt, and he shall burne them and carie them away captiues, and he shall aray himself with the land of Egypt, as a shepheard putteth on his garment, and shall depart from thence in peace.
Jeremiah 43:13	He shall breake also ye images of Beth-shemesh, that is in the lande of Egypt, and the houses of the gods of the Egyptians shall he burne with fire.
Jeremiah 44:1	The worde that came to Ieremiah concerning all the Iewes, which dwell in the lande of Egypt, and remained at Migdol and at Tahpanhes, and at Noph, and in the coutry of Pathros, saying,
Jeremiah 44:2	Thus sayeth the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, Yee haue seene all the euill that I haue brought vpon Ierusalem, and vpon all the cities of Iudah: and beholde, this day they are desolate, and no man dwelleth therein,
Jeremiah 44:3	Because of their wickednes which they haue comitted, to prouoke me to anger in that they went to burne incense, and to serue other gods, who they knew not, neither they nor you nor your fathers.
Jeremiah 44:4	Howbeit I sent vnto you all my seruats the Prophets rising earely, and sending them, saying, Oh doe not this abominable thing that I hate.
Jeremiah 44:5	But they would not heare nor incline their eare to turne from their wickednes, and to burne no more incense vnto other gods.
Jeremiah 44:6	Wherefore my wrath, and mine anger was powred foorth and was kindled in the cities of Iudah, and in the streetes of Ierusalem, and they are desolate, and wasted, as appeareth this day.
Jeremiah 44:7	Therefore now thus saith the Lord of hosts the God of Israel, Wherfore commit ye this great euill against your soules, to cut off from you man and woman, childe and suckling out of Iudah, and leaue you none to remaine?
Jeremiah 44:8	In that yee prouoke mee vnto wrath with the woorkes of your hands, burning incense vnto other Gods in the lande of Egypt whither yee be gone to dwell: that yee might bring destruction vnto your selues, and that ye might be a curse and a reproch among all nations of the earth.
Jeremiah 44:9	Haue yee forgotten the wickednes of your fathers, and the wickednesse of the Kings of Iudah and the wickednesse of their wiues and your owne wickednes and the wickednes of your wiues, which they haue committed in the land of Iudah and in the streetes of Ierusalem?
Jeremiah 44:10	They are not humbled vnto this day, neither haue they feared nor walked in my lawe nor in my statutes, that I set before you and before your fathers.
Jeremiah 44:11	Therefore thus sayeth the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, Beholde, I will set my face against you to euill and to destroy all Iudah,
Jeremiah 44:12	And I will take the remnant of Iudah, that haue set their faces to goe into the lande of Egypt there to dwell, and they shall all bee consumed and fall in the lande of Egypt: they shall euen bee consumed by the sworde and by the famine: they shall die from the least vnto the most, by the sworde, and by the famine, and they shall be a detestation and an astonishment and a curse and a reproche.
Jeremiah 44:13	For I will visite them that dwel in the land of Egypt, as I haue visited Ierusalem, by ye sworde, by the famine, and by the pestilence,
Jeremiah 44:14	So that none of the remnant of Iudah, which are gone into the lande of Egypt to dwell there, shall escape or remaine, that they shoulde returne into the land of Iudah to the which they haue a desire to returne to dwell there: for none shall returne, but such as shall escape.
Jeremiah 44:15	Then all the men which knewe that their wiues had burnt incense vnto other gods and all the women that stoode by, a great multitude, euen all the people that dwelt in the lande of Egypt in Pathros, answered Ieremiah, saying,
Jeremiah 44:16	The worde that thou hast spoken vnto vs in the Name of the Lord, wee will not heare it of thee,
Jeremiah 44:17	But wee will doe whatsoeuer thing goeth out of our owne mouth, as to burne incense vnto the Queene of heauen, and to powre out drinke offerings vnto her, as we haue done, both we and our fathers, our Kings and our princes in the cities of Iudah, and in the streetes of Ierusalem: for then had wee plentie of vitailes and were well and felt none euill.
Jeremiah 44:18	But since wee left off to burne incense to the Queene of heauen, and to powre out drinke offerings vnto her, we haue had scarcenesse of all things, and haue beene consumed by the sworde and by the famine.
Jeremiah 44:19	And when we burnt incense to ye Queene of heauen, and powred out drinke offerings vnto her, did wee make her cakes to make her glad, and powre out drinke offerings vnto her without our husbands?
Jeremiah 44:20	Then said Ieremiah vnto all the people, to the men, and to the women, and to all the people which had giuen him that answere, saying,
Jeremiah 44:21	Did not the Lord remember the incense, that yee burnt in the cities of Iudah, and in the streetes of Ierusalem, both you, and your fathers, your Kinges, and your princes, and the people of the land, and hath he not considered it?
Jeremiah 44:22	So that the Lord could no longer forbeare, because of the wickednes of your inuentions, and because of the abominations, which ye haue committed: therefore is your lande desolate and an astonishment, and a curse and without inhabitant, as appeareth this day.
Jeremiah 44:23	Because ye haue burnt incense and because ye haue sinned against the Lord, and haue not obeyed the voyce of the Lord, nor walked in his Lawe, nor in his statutes, nor in his testimonies, therefore this plague is come vpon you, as appeareth this day.
Jeremiah 44:24	Moreouer Ieremiah saide vnto all the people and to all the women, Heare the word of the Lord, all Iudah that are in the land of Egypt.
Jeremiah 44:25	Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, Ye and your wiues haue both spoken with your mouthes, and fulfilled with your hande, saying, We will performe our vowes that we haue vowed to burne incense to the Queene of heauen, and to powre out drinke offerings to her: yee will perfourme your vowes and doe the things that yee haue vowed.
Jeremiah 44:26	Therefore heare the word of the Lord, all Iudah that dwel in the land of Egypt. Beholde, I haue sworne by my great Name, sayeth the Lord, that my Name shall no more be called vpon by the mouth of any man of Iudah, in all the lande of Egypt, saying, The Lord God liueth.
Jeremiah 44:27	Behold, I wil watch ouer them for euil and not for good, and all men of Iudah that are in the land of Egypt, shalbe consumed by the sword, and by the famine, vntill they be vtterly destroied.
Jeremiah 44:28	Yet a small nomber that escape the sworde, shall returne out of the lande of Egypt into the lande of Iudah: and all the remnant of Iudah that are gone into the lande of Egypt to dwell there, shall know whose words shall stad, mine or theirs.
Jeremiah 44:29	And this shall be a signe vnto you, saith the Lord, whe I visit you in this place, that ye may know that my words shall surely stand against you for euill.
Jeremiah 44:30	Thus sayth the Lord, Beholde, I will giue Pharaoh Hophra King of Egypt into the hand of his enemies, and into the hand of them that seeke his life: as I gaue Zedekiah King of Iudah into the hand of Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel his enemie, who also sought his life.
Jeremiah 45:1	The worde that Ieremiah the Prophet spake vnto Baruch the sonne of Neriah, when he had written these woordes in a booke at the mouth of Ieremiah, in the fourth yeere of Iehoiakim the sonne of Iosiah King of Iudah, saying,
Jeremiah 45:2	Thus sayeth the Lord God of Israel vnto thee, O Baruch,
Jeremiah 45:3	Thou diddest say, Wo is me nowe: for the Lord hath laied sorrow vnto my sorrowe: I fainted in my mourning, and I can finde no rest.
Jeremiah 45:4	Thus shalt thou say vnto him, The Lord sayeth thus, Behold, that which I haue built, will I destroy, and that which I haue planted, will I plucke vp, euen this whole lande.
Jeremiah 45:5	And seekest thou great things for thy self? seeke them not: for beholde, I wil bring a plague vpon al flesh, saith the Lord: but thy life wil I giue thee for a pray in all places, whither thou goest.
Jeremiah 46:1	The wordes of the Lord, which came to Ieremiah the Prophet against the Gentiles,
Jeremiah 46:2	As against Egypt, against ye armie of Pharaoh Necho King of Egypt, which was by the riuer Perath in Carchemish, which Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel smote in the fourth yere of Iehoiakim the sonne of Iosiah King of Iudah.
Jeremiah 46:3	Make readie buckler and shielde, and goe forth to battell.
Jeremiah 46:4	Make readie the horses, and let the horsemen get vp, and stande vp with your sallets, fourbish the speares, and put on the brigandines.
Jeremiah 46:5	Wherefore haue I seene them afraid, and driuen backe? for their mighty men are smitten, and are fled away, and looke not backe: for feare was rounde about, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 46:6	The swift shall not flee away, nor the strong man escape: they shall stumble, and fall towarde the North by the riuer Perath.
Jeremiah 46:7	Who is this, that commeth vp, as a flood, whose waters are mooued like the riuers?
Jeremiah 46:8	Egypt riseth vp like the flood, and his waters are mooued like the riuers, and he sayth, I wil goe vp, and will couer the earth: I wil destroy the citie with them that dwell therein.
Jeremiah 46:9	Come vp, ye horses, and rage ye charets, and let the valiant men come foorth, the blacke Mores, and the Lybians that beare the shield, and the Lydians that handle and bend the bowe.
Jeremiah 46:10	For this is the day of ye Lord God of hostes, and a day of vengeance, that he may auenge him of his enemies: for the sworde shall deuoure, and it shall be saciate, and made drunke with their blood: for the Lord God of hosts hath a sacrifice in the North countrey by the Riuer Perath.
Jeremiah 46:11	Goe vp vnto Gilead, and take balme, O virgine, the daughter of Egypt: in vaine shalt thou vse many medicines: for thou shalt haue no health.
Jeremiah 46:12	The nations haue heard of thy shame, and thy crie hath filled the lande: for the strong hath stumbled against the strong and they are fallen both together.
Jeremiah 46:13	The woorde that the Lord spake to Ieremiah the Prophet, howe Nebuchad-nezzar king of Babel shoulde come and smite the lande of Egypt.
Jeremiah 46:14	Publish in Egypt and declare in Migdol, and proclaime in Noph, and in Tahpanhes, and say, Stand still, and prepare thee: for the sworde shall deuoure rounde about thee.
Jeremiah 46:15	Why are thy valiant men put backe? they could not stand, because the Lord did driue them.
Jeremiah 46:16	Hee made many to fall, and one fell vpon another: and they saide, Arise, let vs goe againe to our owne people, and to the land of our natiuitie from the sworde of the violent.
Jeremiah 46:17	They did cry there, Pharaoh King of Egypt, and of a great multitude hath passed the time appointed.
Jeremiah 46:18	As I liue, saith the King, whose Name is the Lord of hostes, surely as Tabor is in the mountaines, and as Carmel is in the sea: so shall it come.
Jeremiah 46:19	O thou daughter dwelling in Egypt, make thee geare to goe into captiuitie: for Noph shall be waste and desolate, without an inhabitant.
Jeremiah 46:20	Egypt is like a faire calfe, but destruction commeth: out of the North it commeth.
Jeremiah 46:21	Also her hired men are in the middes of her like fat calues: they are also turned backe and fled away together: they could not stand, because the day of their destruction was come vpon them, and the time of their visitation.
Jeremiah 46:22	The voyce thereof shall goe foorth like a serpent: for they shall march with an armie, and come against her with axes, as hewers of wood.
Jeremiah 46:23	They shall cut downe her forest, saith the Lord: for they cannot be counted, because they are moe then ye grashoppers, and are innumerable.
Jeremiah 46:24	The daughter of Egypt shall be confounded: she shall be deliuered into the handes of the people of the North.
Jeremiah 46:25	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Behold, I will visite the common people of No and Pharaoh, and Egypt, with their gods and their Kings, euen Pharaoh, and al them that trust in him,
Jeremiah 46:26	And I will deliuer them into the handes of those, that seeke their liues, and into the hand of Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel, and into the handes of his seruants, and afterwarde she shall dwell as in the olde time, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 46:27	But feare not thou, O my seruant Iaakob, and be not thou afraid, O Israel: for behold, I will deliuer thee from a farre countrey, and thy seede from the land of their captiuitie, and Iaakob shall returne and be in rest, and prosperitie, and none shall make him afraid.
Jeremiah 46:28	Feare thou not, O Iaakob my seruant, saith the Lord: for I am with thee, and I will vtterly destroy all the nations, whither I haue driuen thee: but I will not vtterly destroy thee, but correct thee by iudgement, and not vtterly cut thee off.
Jeremiah 47:1	The wordes of the Lord that came to Ieremiah the Prophet, against the Philistims, before that Pharaoh smote Azzah.
Jeremiah 47:2	Thus saith the Lord, Beholde, waters rise vp out of the North, and shalbe as a swelling flood, and shall ouerflowe the land, and all that is therein, and the cities with them that dwell therein: then the men shall crie, and all the inhabitants of the land shall howle,
Jeremiah 47:3	At the noise and stamping of ye hoofes of his strong horses, at the noise of his charets, and at the rumbling of his wheeles: ye fathers shall not looke backe to their children, for feeblenes of handes,
Jeremiah 47:4	Because of the day that commeth to destroy all the Philistims, and to destroy Tyrus, and Zidon, and all the rest that take their part: for the Lord will destroy the Philistims, the remnant of the yle of Caphtor.
Jeremiah 47:5	Baldenes is come vpon Azzah: Ashkelon is cut vp with the rest of their valleys. Howe long wilt thou thy selfe?
Jeremiah 47:6	O thou sword of the Lord, how long will it be or thou cease! turne againe into thy scaberd, rest and be still.
Jeremiah 47:7	Howe can it cease, seeing the Lord hath giuen it a charge against Ashkelon, and against the sea banke? euen there hath he appointed it.
Jeremiah 48:1	Concerning Moab, thus saith ye Lord of hostes, the God of Israel, Woe vnto Nebo: for it is wasted: Kiriathaim is confounded and taken: Misgab is confounded and afraide.
Jeremiah 48:2	Moab shall boast no more of Heshbon: for they haue deuised euill against it. Come, and let vs destroy it, that it be no more a nation: also thou shalt be destroyed, O Madmen, and the sworde shall pursue thee.
Jeremiah 48:3	A voyce of crying shall be from Horonaim with desolation and great destruction.
Jeremiah 48:4	Moab is destroyed: her litle ones haue caused their crie to be heard.
Jeremiah 48:5	For at the going vp of Luhith, the mourner shall goe vp with weeping: for in the going downe of Horonaim, the enemies haue heard a cry of destruction,
Jeremiah 48:6	Flee and saue your liues, and be like vnto the heath in the wildernesse.
Jeremiah 48:7	For because thou hast trusted in thy workes and in thy treasures, thou shalt also be taken, and Chemosh shall goe forth into captiuitie with his Priestes and his princes together.
Jeremiah 48:8	And the destroyer shall come vpon all cities, and no citie shall escape: the valley also shall perish and the plaine shalbe destroyed as the Lord hath spoken.
Jeremiah 48:9	Giue wings vnto Moab, that it may flee and get away: for the cities thereof shalbe desolate, without any to dwell therein.
Jeremiah 48:10	Cursed be he that doeth the worke of the Lord negligently, and cursed be he that keepeth backe his sword from blood.
Jeremiah 48:11	Moab hath bene at rest from his youth, and he hath setled on his lees, and hath not bene powred from vessell to vessell, neither hath he gone into captiuitie: therefore his taste remained in him and his sent is not changed.
Jeremiah 48:12	Therefore beholde, the dayes come, saith the Lord, that I will send vnto him such as shall carie him away, and shall emptie his vessels, and breake their bottels.
Jeremiah 48:13	And Moab shalbe ashamed of Chemosh as the house of Israel was ashamed of Beth-el their confidence.
Jeremiah 48:14	Howe thinke you thus, We are mightie and strong men of warre?
Jeremiah 48:15	Moab is destroyed, and his cities burnt vp, and his chose yong men are gone downe to slaughter, saith ye King, whose name is ye Lord of hostes.
Jeremiah 48:16	The destruction of Moab is ready to come, and his plague hasteth fast.
Jeremiah 48:17	All ye that are about him, mourne for him, and all ye that knowe his name, say, Howe is the strong staffe broken, and the beautifull rod!
Jeremiah 48:18	Thou daughter that doest inhabite Dibon, come downe from thy glory, and sit in thirst: for the destroyer of Moab shall come vpon thee, and he shall destroy thy strong holdes.
Jeremiah 48:19	Thou that dwellest in Aroer, stand by the way, and beholde: aske him that fleeth and that escapeth, and say, What is done?
Jeremiah 48:20	Moab is cofouded: for it is destroied: howle, and cry, tell ye it in Arnon, that Moab is made waste,
Jeremiah 48:21	And iudgement is come vpon the plaine countrey, vpon Holon and vpon Iahazah, and vpon Mephaath,
Jeremiah 48:22	And vpon Dibon, and vpon Nebo, and vpon the house of Diblathaim,
Jeremiah 48:23	And vpon Kiriathaim, and vpon Beth-gamul, and vpon Beth-meon,
Jeremiah 48:24	And vpon Kerioth, and vpon Bozrah, and vpon all the cities of ye land of Moab farre or neere.
Jeremiah 48:25	The horne of Moab is cut off, and his arme is broken, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 48:26	Make ye him drunken: for he magnified himselfe against the Lord: Moab shall wallowe in his vomite, and he also shalbe in derision.
Jeremiah 48:27	For diddest not thou deride Israel, as though he had bene found among theeues? for when thou speakest of him, thou art moued.
Jeremiah 48:28	O ye that dwell in Moab, leaue the cities, and dwell in the rockes, and be like the doue, that maketh her nest in the sides of the holes mouth.
Jeremiah 48:29	We haue heard the pride of Moab (hee is exceeding proude) his stoutnesse, and his arrogancie, and his pride, and the hautinesse of his heart.
Jeremiah 48:30	I know his wrath, saith ye Lord, but it shall not be so: and his dissimulatios, for they do not right.
Jeremiah 48:31	Therefore will I howle for Moab, and I will crie out for all Moab: mine heart shall mourne for the men of Kir-heres.
Jeremiah 48:32	O vine of Sibmah, I will weepe for thee, as I wept for Iazer: thy plants are gone ouer the sea, they are come to the sea of Iazer: ye destroyer is fallen vpon thy somer fruites, and vpon thy vintage,
Jeremiah 48:33	And ioye, and gladnesse is taken from the plentifull fielde, and from the land of Moab: and I haue caused wine to faile from the winepresse: none shall treade with shouting: their shouting shall be no shouting.
Jeremiah 48:34	From the cry of Heshbon vnto Elaleh and vnto Iahaz haue they made their noyse from Zoar vnto Horonaim, ye heiffer of three yere old shall go lowing: for ye waters also of Nimrim shalbe wasted.
Jeremiah 48:35	Moreouer, I will cause to cease in Moab, saith the Lord, him that offered in the high places, and him that burneth incense to his gods.
Jeremiah 48:36	Therefore mine heart shall sounde for Moab like a shaume, and mine heart shall sound like a shaume for the men of Ker-heres, because the riches that he hath gotten, is perished.
Jeremiah 48:37	For euery head shalbe balde, and euery beard plucked: vpon all the handes shall be cuttings, and vpon the loynes sackecloth.
Jeremiah 48:38	And mourning shall be vpon all the house toppes of Moab and in all the streetes thereof: for I haue broken Moab like a vessell wherein is no pleasure, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 48:39	They shall howle, saying, How is he destroyed? howe hath Moab turned the backe with shame? so shall Moab be a derision, and a feare to all them about him.
Jeremiah 48:40	For thus saith the Lord, Beholde, he shall flee as an eagle, and shall spread his wings ouer Moab.
Jeremiah 48:41	The cities are taken, and the strong holdes are wonne, and ye mightie mens hearts in Moab at that day shalbe as ye heart of a woman in trauaile.
Jeremiah 48:42	And Moab shall be destroyed from being a people, because he hath set vp himselfe against the Lord.
Jeremiah 48:43	Feare, and pit and snare shall be vpon thee, O inhabitant of Moab, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 48:44	He that escapeth from the feare, shall fall in the pit, and he that getteth vp out of the pit, shall be taken in the snare: for I will bring vpon it, euen vpon Moab, the yeere of their visitation, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 48:45	They that fled, stoode vnder the shadowe of Heshbon, because of the force: for the fire came out of Heshbon, and a flame from Sihon, and deuoured the corner of Moab, and the top of the seditious children.
Jeremiah 48:46	Wo be vnto thee, O Moab: the people of Chemosh perisheth: for thy sonnes are taken captiues, and thy daughters led into captiuitie.
Jeremiah 48:47	Yet will I bring againe the captiuitie of Moab in the latter dayes, sayeth the Lord. Thus farre of the iudgement of Moab.
Jeremiah 49:1	Unto the children of Ammon thus saith the Lord, Hath Israel no sonnes? or hath he none heire? Why then hath their king possessed God? and his people dwelt in his cities?
Jeremiah 49:2	Therefore beholde the dayes come, sayeth the Lord, that I will cause a noyse of warre to be heard in Rabbah of the Ammonites, and it shall be a desolate heape, and her daughters shall be burnt with fire: then shall Israel possesse those that possessed him, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 49:3	Howle, O Heshbon, for Ai is wasted: crie ye daughters of Rabbah: girde you with sackecloth: mourne and runne to and from by the hedges: for their King shall goe into captiuitie; and his Priestes, and his princes likewise.
Jeremiah 49:4	Wherefore gloriest thou in the valleis? thy valley floweth away, O rebellious daughter: she trusted in her treasures, saying, Who shall come vnto me?
Jeremiah 49:5	Beholde, I will bring a feare vpon thee, sayth the Lord God of hostes, of all those that be about thee, and ye shalbe scattered euery man right foorth, and none shall gather him that fleeth.
Jeremiah 49:6	And afterward I will bring againe the captiuitie of the children of Ammon.
Jeremiah 49:7	To Edom thus sayeth the Lord of hostes: Is wisdome no more in Teman? is counsel perished from their children? is their wisdome vanished?
Jeremiah 49:8	Flee, ye inhabitants of Dedan (they are turned backe, and haue consulted to dwell) for I haue brought the destruction of Esau vpon him, and the time of his visitation.
Jeremiah 49:9	If the grape gatherers come to thee, would they not leaue some grapes? if theeues come by night, they will destroy till they haue ynough.
Jeremiah 49:10	For I haue discouered Esau: I haue vncouered his secrets, and he shall not be able to hide himselfe: his seede is wasted, and his brethren and his neighbours, and there shall be none to say,
Jeremiah 49:11	Leaue thy fathers children, and I will preserue them aliue, and let thy widowes trust in me.
Jeremiah 49:12	For thus sayth the Lord, Beholde, they whose iudgement was not to drinke of the cuppe, haue assuredly drunken, and art thou he that shall escape free? thou shalt not goe free, but thou shalt surely drinke of it.
Jeremiah 49:13	For I haue sworne by my selfe, sayeth the Lord, that Bozrah shall be waste, and for a reproche, and a desolation, and a curse, and all the cities thereof shall be perpetuall desolations.
Jeremiah 49:14	I haue heard a rumour from the Lord, and an ambassadour is sent vnto the heathen, saying, Gather you together, and come against her, and rise vp to the battell.
Jeremiah 49:15	For loe, I will make thee but small among the heathen, and despised among men.
Jeremiah 49:16	Thy feare, and ye pride of thine heart hath deceiued thee, thou that dwellest in the cleftes of the rocke, and keepest the height of ye hil: though thou shouldest make thy nest as hie as the eagle, I wil bring thee downe from thece, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 49:17	Also Edom shall be desolate: euery one that goeth by it, shall be astonished, and shall hisse at all the plagues thereof,
Jeremiah 49:18	As in the ouerthrowe of Sodom, and of Gomorah, and the places thereof neere about, saieth the Lord: no man shall dwell there, neither shall the sonnes of men remaine in it.
Jeremiah 49:19	Beholde, hee shall come vp like a lyon from the swelling of Iorden vnto the strong dwelling place: for I will make Israel to rest, euen I will make him to haste away from her, and who is a chosen man that I may appoynt against her? for who is like mee? and who will appoint me the time? and who is the shepheard that will stande before me?
Jeremiah 49:20	Therefore heare the counsell of the Lord that hee hath deuised against Edom, and his purpose that hee hath conceiued against the inhabitants of Teman: surely the least of the flocke shall drawe them out: surely he shall make their habitations desolate with them.
Jeremiah 49:21	The earth is mooued at the noyse of their fall: the crie of their voice is heard in the red Sea.
Jeremiah 49:22	Behold, he shall come vp, and flie as the Egle, and spreade his wings ouer Bozrah, and at that day shall the heart of the strong men of Edome be as the heart of a woman in trauaile.
Jeremiah 49:23	Vnto Damascus he sayeth, Hamath is confounded and Arpad, for they haue heard euill tidings, and they are faint hearted as one on the fearefull sea that can not rest.
Jeremiah 49:24	Damascus is discouraged, and turneth her selfe to flight and feare hath seased her: anguish and sorowes haue taken her as a woman in trauaile.
Jeremiah 49:25	How is the glorious citie not reserued, the citie of my ioy?
Jeremiah 49:26	Therefore her yong men shall fall in her streetes, and all her men of warre shall be cut off in that day, sayeth the Lord of hostes.
Jeremiah 49:27	And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, which shall cosume the palaces of Benhadad.
Jeremiah 49:28	Vnto Kedar, and to the kingdomes of Hazor, which Nebuchad-nezzar, king of Babel shall smite, thus sayeth the Lord, Arise, and goe vp vnto Kedar, and destroy the men of the East.
Jeremiah 49:29	Their tents and their flocks shall they take away: yea, they shall take to themselues their curtaines and all their vessels, and their camels, and they shall crie vnto them, Feare is on euery side.
Jeremiah 49:30	Flee, get you farre off (they haue consulted to dwell) O ye inhabitants of Hazor, saith the Lord: for Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel hath taken counsell against you, and hath deuised a purpose against you.
Jeremiah 49:31	Arise, and get you vp vnto the welthy nation that dwelleth without care, saith the Lord, which haue neither gates nor barres, but dwel alone.
Jeremiah 49:32	And their camels shall be a bootie, and the multitude of their cattel a spoile, and I will scatter them into all windes, and to the vtmost corners, and I will bring their destruction from al the sides thereof, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 49:33	And Hazor shall be a dwelling for dragons, and desolation for euer: there shall no man dwell there, nor the sonnes of men remaine in it.
Jeremiah 49:34	The woordes of the Lord that came to Ieremiah the Prophet, concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reigne of Zedekiah King of Iudah, saying,
Jeremiah 49:35	Thus sayeth the Lord of hostes, Beholde, I will breake the bowe of Elam, euen the chiefe of their strength.
Jeremiah 49:36	And vpon Elam I will bring the foure windes from the foure quarters of heauen, and will scatter them towardes all these windes, and there shall bee no nation, whither the fugitiues of Elam shall not come.
Jeremiah 49:37	For I will cause Elam to be afraied before their enemies, and before them that seeke their liues, and will bring vpon them a plague, euen the indignation of my wrath, saieth the Lord, and I wil sende the sworde after them till I haue consumed them.
Jeremiah 49:38	And I wil set my throne in Elam, and I wil destroy both the King and the princes from thence, saith the Lord: but in the latter daies I wil bring againe the captiuitie of Elam, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 50:1	The word that the Lord spake, concerning Babel, and cocerning the land of the Caldeans by the ministerie of Ieremiah the Prophet.
Jeremiah 50:2	Declare among the nations, and publish it, and set vp a standart, proclaime it and conceale it not: say, Babel is taken, Bel is confounded, Merodach is broken downe: her idols are confounded, and their images are burst in pieces.
Jeremiah 50:3	For out of the North there commeth vp a nation against her, which shall make her lande waste, and none shall dwel therein: they shall flee, and depart, both man and beast.
Jeremiah 50:4	In those daies, and at that time, sayeth the Lord, the children of Israel shall come, they, and the children of Iudah together, going, and weeping shall they goe, and seeke the Lord their God.
Jeremiah 50:5	They shall aske the way to Zion, with their faces thitherward, saying, Come, and let vs cleaue to the Lord in a perpetuall couenant that shall not be forgotten.
Jeremiah 50:6	My people hath beene as lost sheepe: their shepheards haue caused them to goe astray, and haue turned them away to the mountaines: they haue gone from mountaine to hil, and forgotten their resting place.
Jeremiah 50:7	Al that found them, haue deuoured them, and their enemies saide, We offende not, because they haue sinned against the Lord, the habitation of iustice, euen the Lord the hope of their fathers.
Jeremiah 50:8	Flee from the middes of Babel, and depart out of the lande of the Caldeans, and be ye as the hee goates before the flocke.
Jeremiah 50:9	For loe, I will raise, and cause to come vp against Babel a multitude of mightie natios from the North countrey, and they shall set themselues in aray against her, whereby shee shall be taken: their arrowes shall be as of a strong man, which is expert, for none shall returne in vaine.
Jeremiah 50:10	And Caldea shalbe a spoyle: all that spoyle her, shalbe satisfied, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 50:11	Because yee were glad and reioyced in destroying mine heritage, and because ye are growen fatte, as the calues in the grasse, and neied like strong horses,
Jeremiah 50:12	Therefore your mother shall bee sore confounded, and she that bare you, shall be ashamed: beholde, the vttermost of the nations shalbe a desert, a drie land, and a wildernes.
Jeremiah 50:13	Because of the wrath of the Lord it shall not be inhabited, but shall be wholy desolate: euery one that goeth by Babel, shall be astonished, and hisse at all her plagues.
Jeremiah 50:14	Put your selues in aray against Babel rounde about: all ye that bende the bowe, shoote at her, spare no arrowes: for shee hath sinned against the Lord.
Jeremiah 50:15	Crie against her round about: she hath giuen her hand: her foundations are fallen, and her walles are destroyed: for it is the vengeance of the Lord: take vengeance vpon her: as she hath done, doe vnto her.
Jeremiah 50:16	Destroy the sower from Babel, and him that handleth the sieth in the time of haruest: because of the sworde of the oppressor they shall turne euery one to his people, and they shall flee euery one to his owne land.
Jeremiah 50:17	Israel is like scattered sheepe: the lions haue dispersed them: first the King of Asshur hath deuoured him, and last this Nebuchad-nezzar King, of Babel hath broken his bones.
Jeremiah 50:18	Therefore thus saith the Lord of hostes the God of Israel, Behold, I wil visit ye King of Babel, and his land, as I haue visited the King of Asshur.
Jeremiah 50:19	And I will bring Israel againe to his habitation: hee shall feede on Carmel and Bashan, and his soule shall be satisfied vpon the mount Ephraim and Gilead.
Jeremiah 50:20	In those daies, and at that time, sayeth the Lord, the iniquitie of Israel shall be sought for, and there shall be none: and the sinnes of Iudah, and they shall not be founde: for I will be mercifull vnto them, whome I reserue.
Jeremiah 50:21	Goe vp against the lande of the rebelles, euen against it, and against the inhabitantes of Pekod: destroy, and lay it waste after them, saieth the Lord, and doe according to all that I haue commanded thee.
Jeremiah 50:22	A crie of battell is in the land, and of great destruction.
Jeremiah 50:23	Howe is the hammer of the whole world destroied, and broken! howe is Babel become desolate among the nations!
Jeremiah 50:24	I haue snared thee, and thou art taken, O Babel, and thou wast not aware: thou art found, and also caught, because thou hast striuen against the Lord.
Jeremiah 50:25	The Lord hath opened his treasure, and hath brought foorth the weapons of his wrath: for this is the woorke of the Lord God of hostes in the lande of the Caldeans.
Jeremiah 50:26	Come against her from the vtmost border: open her store houses: treade on her as on sheaues, and destroy her vtterly: let nothing of her be left.
Jeremiah 50:27	Destroy all her bullockes: let them goe downe to the slaughter. Wo vnto them, for their day is come, and the time of their visitation.
Jeremiah 50:28	The voyce of them that flee, and escape out of the lande of Babel to declare in Zion the vengeance of the Lord our God, and the vengeance of his Temple.
Jeremiah 50:29	Call vp the archers against Babel: al ye that bend the bow, besiege it rounde about: let none thereof escape: recompence her according to her worke, and according to all that she hath done, doe vnto her: for she hath bene proud against the Lord, euen against the holy one of Israel.
Jeremiah 50:30	Therefore shall her yong men fall in the streetes, and al her men of warre shalbe destroied in that day, sayeth the Lord.
Jeremiah 50:31	Beholde, I come vnto thee, O proude man, saith the Lord God of hostes: for thy day is come, euen the time that I will visite thee.
Jeremiah 50:32	And the proude shall stumble and fall, and none shall raise him vp: and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it shall deuoure all round about him.
Jeremiah 50:33	Thus saieth the Lord of hosts, The children of Israel, and the children of Iudah were oppressed together: and all that tooke them captiues, held them, and would not let them goe.
Jeremiah 50:34	But their strong redeemer, whose Name is the Lord of hostes, he shall maintaine their cause, that he may giue rest to the lande, and disquiet the inhabitants of Babel.
Jeremiah 50:35	A sworde is vpon the Caldeans, sayeth the Lord, and vpon the inhabitants of Babel, and vpon her princes, and vpon her wise men.
Jeremiah 50:36	A sworde is vpon the soothsaiers, and they shall dote: a sword is vpon her strong men, and they shalbe afraide.
Jeremiah 50:37	A sworde is vpon their horses and vpon their charets, and vpon all the multitude that are in the middes of her, and they shall be like women: a sworde is vpon her treasures, and they shall be spoyled.
Jeremiah 50:38	A drought is vpon her waters, and they shall be dried vp: for it is the lande of grauen images, and they dote vpon their idoles.
Jeremiah 50:39	Therefore the Ziims with the Iims shall dwel there, and the ostriches shall dwel therein: for it shall be no more inhabited, neither shall it be inhabited from generation vnto generation.
Jeremiah 50:40	As God destroied Sodom and Gomorah with the places thereof neere about, sayeth the Lord: so shall no man dwell theere, neither shall the sonne of man remaine therein.
Jeremiah 50:41	Beholde, a people shall come from the North, and a great nation, and many Kings shall be raised vp from the coastes of the earth.
Jeremiah 50:42	They shall holde the bowe and the buckeler: they are cruell and vnmercifull: their voyce shall roare like the sea, and they shall ride vpon horses, and be put in aray like men to the battell against thee, O daughter of Babel.
Jeremiah 50:43	The King of Babel hath heard the report of them, and his hands waxed feeble: sorow came vpon him, euen sorowe as of a woman in trauaile.
Jeremiah 50:44	Beholde, hee shall come vp like a lyon from the swelling of Iorden vnto the strong habitation: for I will make Israel to rest, and I will make them to haste away from her: and who is a chosen man that I may appoynt against her? for who is like me, and who will appoynt me the time? and who is the shepheard that will stande before me?
Jeremiah 50:45	Therefore heare the counsell of the Lord that hee hath deuised against Babel, and his purpose that hee hath conceiued against the lande of the Caldeans: surely the least of the flocke shall drawe them out: surely he shall make their habitation desolate with them.
Jeremiah 50:46	At the noyse of the winning of Babel the earth is moued, and the crye is heard among the nations.
Jeremiah 51:1	Thus sayth the Lord, Beholde, I wil raise vp against Babel, and against the inhabitants that lift vp their heart against me, a destroying wind,
Jeremiah 51:2	And wil send vnto Babel fanners that shall fanne her, and shall empty her land: for in the day of trouble they shalbe against her on euery side.
Jeremiah 51:3	Also to the bender that bendeth his bowe, and to him that lifteth himselfe vp in his brigandine, will I say, Spare not her yong men, but destroy all her hoste.
Jeremiah 51:4	Thus the slaine shall fall in the lande of the Caldeans, and they that are thrust through in her streetes.
Jeremiah 51:5	For Israel hath bene no widowe, nor Iudah from his God, from the Lord of hostes, though their lande was filled with sinne against the holy one of Israel.
Jeremiah 51:6	Flee out of the middes of Babel, and deliuer euery man his soule: be not destroyed in her iniquitie: for this is the time of the Lordes vengeance he will render vnto her a recompence.
Jeremiah 51:7	Babel hath bene as a golden cuppe in the Lordes hand, that made all the earth drunken: the nations haue drunken of her wine, therefore do the nations rage.
Jeremiah 51:8	Babel is suddenly fallen, and destroyed: howle for her, bring balme for her sore, if she may be healed.
Jeremiah 51:9	We would haue cured Babel, but she could not be healed: forsake her, and let vs go euery one into his owne countrey: for her iudgement is come vp vnto heauen, and is lifted vp to ye cloudes.
Jeremiah 51:10	The Lord hath brought forth our righteousnesse: come and let vs declare in Zion the worke of the Lord our God.
Jeremiah 51:11	Make bright the arrowes: gather the shieldes: the Lord hath raised vp the spirit of the King of the Medes: for his purpose is against Babel to destroy it, because it is the vengeance of the Lord, and the vengeance of his Temple.
Jeremiah 51:12	Set vp the standart vpon the walles of Babel, make the watch strong: set vp the watchmen: prepare the skoutes: for the Lord hath both deuised, and done that which he spake against the inhabitantes of Babel.
Jeremiah 51:13	O thou that dwellest vpon many waters, abundant in treasures, thine ende is come, euen the ende of thy couetousnes.
Jeremiah 51:14	The Lord of hostes hath sworne by him selfe, saying, Surely I will fill thee with men, as with caterpillers, and they shall cry and shoute against thee.
Jeremiah 51:15	He hath made the earth by his power, and established the world by his wisedome, and hath stretched out the heauen by his discretion.
Jeremiah 51:16	Hee giueth by his voyce the multitude of waters in the heauen, and he causeth the cloudes to ascend from the endes of the earth: he turneth lightnings to raine, and bringeth forth the winde out of his treasures.
Jeremiah 51:17	Euery man is a beast by his owne knowledge: euery founder is confounded by the grauen image: for his melting is but falsehood, and there is no breath therein.
Jeremiah 51:18	They are vanitie, and the worke of errours: in the time of their visitation they shall perish.
Jeremiah 51:19	The portion of Iaakob is not like them: for he is the maker of all things, and Israel is the rodde of his inheritance: the Lord of hostes is his Name.
Jeremiah 51:20	Thou art mine hammer, and weapons of warre: for with thee will I breake the nations, and with thee wil I destroy kingdomes,
Jeremiah 51:21	And by thee wil I breake horse and horseman, and by thee will I breake the charet and him that rideth therein.
Jeremiah 51:22	By thee also will I breake man and woman, and by thee wil I breake olde and yong, and by thee wil I breake the yong man and the mayde.
Jeremiah 51:23	I wil also breake by thee the shepheard and his flocke, and by thee will I breake the husband man and his yoke of oxen, and by thee will I breake the dukes and princes.
Jeremiah 51:24	And I will render vnto Babel, and to all the inhabitants of the Caldeans all their euil, that they haue done in Zion, euen in your sight, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 51:25	Beholde, I come vnto thee, O destroying mountaine, sayth the Lord, which destroyest all the earth: and I will stretch out mine hand vpon thee, and rolle thee downe from the rockes, and wil make thee a burnt mountaine.
Jeremiah 51:26	They shall not take of thee a stone for a corner, nor a stone for foundations, but thou shalt be destroyed for euer, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 51:27	Set vp a standard in the lande: blowe the trumpets among the nations: prepare the nations against her: call vp the kingdomes of Ararat, Minni, and Ashchenaz against her: appoynt the prince against her: cause horses to come vp as the rough caterpillers.
Jeremiah 51:28	Prepare against her the nations with the Kings of the Medes, the dukes thereof, and the princes thereof, and all the land of his dominion.
Jeremiah 51:29	And the land shall tremble and sorow: for the deuise of the Lord shalbe performed against Babel, to make the lande of Babel waste without an inhabitant.
Jeremiah 51:30	The strong men of Babel haue ceased to fight: they haue remayned in their holdes: their strength hath fayled, and they were like women: they haue burnt her dwelling places, and her barres are broken.
Jeremiah 51:31	A post shall runne to meete the post, and a messenger to meete the messenger, to shew the King of Babel, that his citie is taken on a side thereof,
Jeremiah 51:32	And that the passages are stopped, and the reedes burnt with fire, and the me of war troubled.
Jeremiah 51:33	For thus sayth the Lord of hosts the God of Israel, the daughter of Babel is like a threshing floore: the time of her threshing is come: yet a litle while, and the time of her haruest shall come.
Jeremiah 51:34	Nebuchad-nezzar the King of Babel hath deuoured me, and destroyed me: he hath made me an emptie vessel: he swallowed mee vp like a dragon, and filled his belly with my delicates, and hath cast me out.
Jeremiah 51:35	The spoyle of me, and that which was left of me, is brought vnto Babel, shall the inhabitant of Zion say: and my blood vnto the inhabitantes of Caldea, shall Ierusalem say.
Jeremiah 51:36	Therefore thus sayth the Lord, Beholde, I will maintayne thy cause, and take vengeance for thee, and I will drie vp the sea, and drie vp her springes.
Jeremiah 51:37	And Babel shall be as heapes, a dwelling place for dragons, an astonishment, and an hissing, without an inhabitant.
Jeremiah 51:38	They shall rore together like lions, and yell as the lyons whelpes.
Jeremiah 51:39	In their heate I will make them feastes, and I wil make them drunken, that they may reioyce, and sleepe a perpetual sleepe, and not wake, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 51:40	I wil bring them downe like lambes to the slaughter, and like rams and goates.
Jeremiah 51:41	How is Sheshach taken! and howe is the glory of the whole earth taken! how is Babel become an astonishment among the nations!
Jeremiah 51:42	The sea is come vp vpon Babel: he is couered with the multitude of the waues thereof.
Jeremiah 51:43	Her cities are desolate: the land is dry and a wildernes, a land wherein no man dwelleth, neither doth the sonne of man passe thereby.
Jeremiah 51:44	I wil also visite Bel in Babel, and I wil bring out of his mouth, that which he hath swallowed vp, and the nations shall runne no more vnto him, and the wall of Babel shall fall.
Jeremiah 51:45	My people, go out of the middes of her, and deliuer yee euery man his soule from the fierce wrath of the Lord,
Jeremiah 51:46	Least your heart euen faynt, and ye feare the rumour, that shalbe heard in the land: the rumour shall come this yeere, and after that in the other yeere shall come a rumour, and crueltie in the land, and ruler against ruler.
Jeremiah 51:47	Therefore beholde, the dayes come, that I will visite the images of Babel, and the whole land shalbe confounded, and all her slayne shall fall in the middes of her.
Jeremiah 51:48	Then the heauen and the earth, and all that is therein, shall reioyce for Babel: for the destroyers shall come vnto her from the North, saith the Lord.
Jeremiah 51:49	As Babel caused the slaine of Israel to fal, so by Babel the slaine of all the earth did fall.
Jeremiah 51:50	Ye that haue escaped the sworde, goe away, stand not still: remember the Lord a farre of, and let Ierusalem come into your minde.
Jeremiah 51:51	Wee are confounded because wee haue heard reproch: shame hath couered our faces, for straungers are come into the Sanctuaries of the Lordes House.
Jeremiah 51:52	Wherefore behold, the dayes come, sayth the Lord, that I will visite her grauen images, and through all her land the wounded shall grone.
Jeremiah 51:53	Though Babel should mount vp to heauen, and though shee should defend her strength on hye, yet from mee shall her destroyers come, sayth the Lord.
Jeremiah 51:54	A sound of a cry commeth from Babel, and great destruction from the land of the Caldeans,
Jeremiah 51:55	Because the Lord hath layde Babel waste and destroyed from her the great voyce, and her waues shall roare like great waters, and a sounde was made by their noyse:
Jeremiah 51:56	Because the destroyer is come vpon her, euen vpon Babel, and her strong men are taken, their bowes are broken: for the Lord God that recompenceth, shall surely recompence.
Jeremiah 51:57	And I will make drunke her princes, and her wise men, her dukes, and her nobles, and her strong men: and they shall sleepe a perpetuall sleepe, and not wake, sayth the King, whose Name is the Lord of hostes.
Jeremiah 51:58	Thus saith the Lord of hostes, The thicke wall of Babel shalbe broken, and her hie gates shall be burnt with fire, and the people shall labour in vaine, and the folke in ye fire, for they shalbe weary.
Jeremiah 51:59	The worde which Ieremiah the Prophet commanded Sheraiah the sonne of Neriiah, the sonne of Maaseiah, when he went with Zedekiah the King of Iudah into Babel, in the fourth yeere of his reigne: and this Sheraiah was a peaceable prince.
Jeremiah 51:60	So Ieremiah wrote in a booke all the euill that should come vpon Babel: euen al these things, that are written against Babel.
Jeremiah 51:61	And Ieremiah sayd to Sheraiah, Whe thou commest vnto Babel, and shalt see, and shalt reade all these wordes,
Jeremiah 51:62	Then shalt thou say, O Lord, thou hast spoken against this place, to destroy it, that none should remaine in it, neither man nor beast, but that it should be desolate for euer.
Jeremiah 51:63	And when thou hast made an ende of reading this booke, thou shalt binde a stone to it, and cast it in the middes of Euphrates,
Jeremiah 51:64	And shalt say, Thus shall Babel be drowned, and shall not rise from the euil, that I will bring vpon her: and they shall be weary. Thus farre are the wordes of Ieremiah.
Jeremiah 52:1	Zedekiah was one and twentie yeere olde when he began to reigne, and he reigned eleuen yeeres in Ierusalem, and his mothers name was Hamutal, the daughter of Ieremiah of Libnah.
Jeremiah 52:2	And he did euil in the eyes of the Lord, according to all that Iehoiakim had done.
Jeremiah 52:3	Doubtlesse because the wrath of the Lord was against Ierusalem and Iudah, till he had cast them out from his presence, therefore Zedekiah rebelled against the King of Babel.
Jeremiah 52:4	But in the ninth yeere of his reigne, in the tenth moneth the tenth day of the moneth came Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel, he and all his hoste against Ierusalem, and pitched against it, and buylt fortes against it round about.
Jeremiah 52:5	So the citie was besieged vnto the eleuenth yeere of the King Zedekiah.
Jeremiah 52:6	Now in the fourth moneth, the ninth day of the moneth, the famine was sore in ye citie, so that there was no more bread for ye people of the land.
Jeremiah 52:7	Then the citie was broken vp and all the men of warre fled, and went out of the citie by night, by the way of the gate betweene the two walles, which was by the kings garden: (now the Caldeans were by the citie round about) and they went by the way of the wildernes.
Jeremiah 52:8	But the army of the Caldeans pursued after the king, and tooke Zedekiah in the desert of Iericho, and all his host was scattered from him.
Jeremiah 52:9	Then they tooke the king and caryed him vp vnto the king of Babel to Riblah in the lande of Hamath, where he gaue iudgement vpon him.
Jeremiah 52:10	And the king of Babel slewe the sonnes of Zedekiah, before his eyes he slew also al ye princes of Iudah in Riblah.
Jeremiah 52:11	Then he put out the eyes of Zedekiah, and the king of Babel bound him in chaines, and caried him to Babel, and put him in pryson till the day of his death.
Jeremiah 52:12	Now in the fift moneth in the tenth day of the moneth (which was the nineteenth yere of ye King Nebuchad-nezzar King of Babel) came Nebuzar-adan chiefe steward which stoode before the king of Babel in Ierusalem,
Jeremiah 52:13	And burnt the House of the Lord, and the Kings house, and all the houses of Ierusalem, and all the great houses burnt he with fire.
Jeremiah 52:14	And al the armie of the Caldeans that were with the chiefe steward, brake downe all ye walles of Ierusalem round about.
Jeremiah 52:15	Then Nebuzar-adan the chiefe steward caried away captiue certaine of the poore of the people, and the residue of the people that remayned in the citie, and those that were fled, and fallen to the king of Babel, with the rest of the multitude.
Jeremiah 52:16	But Nebuzar-adan the chiefe steward left certaine of the poore of the lande, to dresse the vines, and to till the land.
Jeremiah 52:17	Also the pillars of brasse that were in the House of the Lord, and the bases, and the brasen Sea, that was in the house of ye Lord, the Caldeans brake, and caried all the brasse of them to Babel.
Jeremiah 52:18	The pots also and the besomes, and the instruments of musicke, and the basins, and the incense dishes, and all the vessels of brasse wherewith they ministred, tooke they away.
Jeremiah 52:19	And the bowles, and the ashpannes, and the basins, and the pots, and the candlestickes, and the incense dishes, and the cuppes, and all that was of golde, and that was of siluer, tooke the chiefe steward away,
Jeremiah 52:20	With the two pillars, one Sea, and twelue brasen bulles, that were vnder the bases, which King Salomon had made in ye house of ye Lord: the brasse of all these vessels was without weight.
Jeremiah 52:21	And concerning the pillars, the height of one pillar was eighteene cubites, and a threede of twelue cubites did compasse it, and the thicknesse thereof was foure fingers: it was holowe.
Jeremiah 52:22	And a chapiter of brasse was vpon it, and the height of one chapiter was fiue cubites with networke, and pomegranates vpon the chapiters round about, all of brasse: the seconde pillar also, and the pomegranates were like vnto these.
Jeremiah 52:23	And there were ninetie and sixe pomegranates on a side: and all the pomegranates vpon the net worke were an hundreth round about.
Jeremiah 52:24	And the chiefe steward tooke Sheraiah the chiefe Priest, and Zephaniah the seconde Priest, and the three keepers of the doore.
Jeremiah 52:25	Hee tooke also out of the citie an Eunuch, which had the ouersight of the men of warre, and seuen men that were in the Kings presence, which were founde in the citie, and Sopher captayne of the hoste who mustered the people of the lande, and threescore men of the people of the land, that were found in the middes of the citie.
Jeremiah 52:26	Nebuzar-adan the chiefe stewarde tooke them, and brought them to the king of Babel to Riblah.
Jeremiah 52:27	And the king of Babel smote them, and slewe them in Riblah, in the lande of Hamath: thus Iudah was caried away captiue out of his owne land.
Jeremiah 52:28	This is the people, whome Nebuchad-nezzar caried away captiue, in the seuenth yeere, euen three thousande Iewes, and three and twentie.
Jeremiah 52:29	In the eightenth yere of Nebuchad-nezzar he caried away captiue from Ierusalem eight hundreth thirtie and two persons.
Jeremiah 52:30	In the three and twentieth yeere of Nebuchad-nezzar, Nebuzar-adan the chiefe stewarde caried away captiue of the Iewes seuen hundreth fourtie and fiue persons: all the persons were foure thousand and sixe hundreth.
Jeremiah 52:31	And in the seuen and thirtieth yeere of the captiuitie of Iehoiachin King of Iudah, in the twelfth moneth, in the fiue and twentieth day of the moneth, Euil-merodach King of Babel, in the first yeere of his reigne, lifted vp the head of Iehoiachin King of Iudah, and brought him out of pryson,
Jeremiah 52:32	And spake kindly vnto him, and set his throne aboue the throne of the Kings, that were with him in Babel,
Jeremiah 52:33	And changed his pryson garmentes, and he did continually eate bread before him all the dayes of his life.
Jeremiah 52:34	His porcion was a continuall portion giuen him of ye king of Babel, euery day a certaine, all the dayes of his life vntill he died.

===== BOOK: John =====
John 1:1	In the beginning was that Word, and that Word was with God, and that Word was God.
John 1:2	This same was in the beginning with God.
John 1:3	All things were made by it, and without it was made nothing that was made.
John 1:4	In it was life, and that life was the light of men.
John 1:5	And that light shineth in the darkenesse, and the darkenesse comprehended it not.
John 1:6	There was a man sent from God, whose name was Iohn.
John 1:7	This same came for a witnesse, to beare witnesse of that light, that all men through him might beleeue.
John 1:8	He was not that light, but was sent to beare witnesse of that light.
John 1:9	This was that true light, which lighteth euery man that commeth into the world.
John 1:10	He was in the world, and the worlde was made by him: and the worlde knewe him not.
John 1:11	He came vnto his owne, and his owne receiued him not.
John 1:12	But as many as receiued him, to them he gaue prerogatiue to be the sonnes of God, euen to them that beleeue in his Name.
John 1:13	Which are borne not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of ye wil of man, but of God.
John 1:14	And that Word was made flesh, and dwelt among vs, (and we sawe the glorie thereof, as the glorie of the onely begotten Sonne of the Father) full of grace and trueth.
John 1:15	Iohn bare witnesse of him, and cryed, saying, This was he of whom I said, He that commeth after me, was before me: for he was better then I.
John 1:16	And of his fulnesse haue all we receiued, and grace for grace.
John 1:17	For the Lawe was giuen by Moses, but grace, and trueth came by Iesus Christ.
John 1:18	No man hath seene God at any time: that onely begotten Sonne, which is in the bosome of the Father, he hath declared him.
John 1:19	Then this is the record of Iohn, when the Iewes sent Priestes and Leuites from Hierusalem, to aske him, Who art thou?
John 1:20	And he confessed and denied not, and said plainely, I am not that Christ.
John 1:21	And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he said, I am not. Art thou that Prophet? And he answered, No.
John 1:22	Then said they vnto him, Who art thou, that we may giue an answere to them that sent vs? What sayest thou of thy selfe?
John 1:23	He said, I am the voyce of him that cryeth in the wildernesse, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the Prophet Esaias.
John 1:24	Nowe they which were sent, were of the Pharises.
John 1:25	And they asked him, and saide vnto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ, neither Elias, nor that Prophet?
John 1:26	Iohn answered them, saying, I baptize with water: but there is one among you, whom ye knowe not.
John 1:27	He it is that commeth after me, which was before me, whose shoe latchet I am not worthie to vnloose.
John 1:28	These things were done in Bethabara beyond Iordan, where Iohn did baptize.
John 1:29	The next day Iohn, seeth Iesus comming vnto him, and saith, Beholde that Lambe of God, which taketh away the sinne of the world.
John 1:30	This is he of whom I saide, After me commeth a man, which was before me: for he was better then I.
John 1:31	And I knewe him not: but because he should be declared to Israel, therefore am I come, baptizing with water.
John 1:32	So Iohn bare recorde, saying, I behelde that Spirit come downe from heauen, like a doue, and it abode vpon him,
John 1:33	And I knewe him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, he saide vnto me, Vpon whom thou shalt see that Spirit come downe, and tary still on him, that is he which baptizeth with the holy Ghost.
John 1:34	And I sawe, and bare record that this is that Sonne of God.
John 1:35	The next day, Iohn stoode againe, and two of his disciples.
John 1:36	And he behelde Iesus walking by, and said, Beholde that Lambe of God.
John 1:37	And the two disciples heard him speake, and followed Iesus.
John 1:38	Then Iesus turned about, and saw them follow, and saide vnto them, What seeke ye? And they saide vnto him, Rabbi (which is to say by interpretation, Master) where dwellest thou?
John 1:39	He saide vnto them, Come, and see. They came and sawe where hee dwelt, and abode with him that day: for it was about the tenth houre.
John 1:40	Andrew, Simon Peters brother, was one of the two which had heard it of Iohn, and that followed him.
John 1:41	The same founde his brother Simon first, and said vnto him, We haue founde that Messias, which is by interpretation, that Christ.
John 1:42	And he brought him to Iesus. And Iesus behelde him, and saide, Thou art Simon the sonne of Iona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, a stone.
John 1:43	The day following, Iesus woulde goe into Galile, and founde Philip, and said vnto him, Followe me.
John 1:44	Nowe Philip was of Bethsaida, the citie of Andrew and Peter.
John 1:45	Philippe founde Nathanael, and saide vnto him, Wee haue founde him of whom Moses did write in the Lawe, and the Prophetes, Iesus that sonne of Ioseph, that was of Nazareth.
John 1:46	Then Nathanael sayde vnto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saide to him, Come, and see.
John 1:47	Iesus sawe Nathanael comming to him, and saide of him, Beholde in deede an Israelite, in whom is no guile.
John 1:48	Nathanael sayde vnto him, Whence knewest thou mee? Iesus answered, and sayd vnto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast vnder the figge tree, I sawe thee.
John 1:49	Nathanael answered, and saide vnto him, Rabbi, thou art that Sonne of God: thou art that King of Israel.
John 1:50	Iesus answered, and sayde vnto him, Because I sayde vnto thee, I sawe thee vnder the figtree, beleeuest thou? thou shalt see greater things then these.
John 1:51	And he saide vnto him, Verely, verely I say vnto you, hereafter shall yee see heauen open, and the Angels of God ascending, and descending vpon that Sonne of man.
John 2:1	And the thirde day, was there a mariage in Cana a towne of Galile, and the mother of Iesus was there.
John 2:2	And Iesus was called also, and his disciples vnto the mariage.
John 2:3	Nowe when the wine failed, the mother of Iesus saide vnto him, They haue no wine.
John 2:4	Iesus saide vnto her, Woman, what haue I to doe with thee? mine houre is not yet come.
John 2:5	His mother saide vnto the seruants, Whatsoeuer he sayeth vnto you, doe it.
John 2:6	And there were set there, sixe waterpots of stone, after the maner of the purifying of the Iewes, conteining two or three firkins a piece.
John 2:7	And Iesus sayde vnto them, Fill the waterpots with water. Then they filled them vp to the brim.
John 2:8	Then he sayde vnto them, Draw out nowe and beare vnto the gouernour of the feast. So they bare it.
John 2:9	Nowe when the gouernour of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, (for he knewe not whence it was: but the seruants, which drewe the water, knewe) the gouernour of ye feast called the bridegrome,
John 2:10	And saide vnto him, All men at the beginning set foorth good wine, and when men haue well drunke, then that which is worse: but thou hast kept backe the good wine vntill nowe.
John 2:11	This beginning of miracles did Iesus in Cana a towne of Galile, and shewed forth his glorie: and his disciples beleeued on him.
John 2:12	After that, he went downe into Capernaum, he and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples: but they continued not many daies there.
John 2:13	For the Iewes Passeouer was at hande. Therefore Iesus went vp to Hierusalem.
John 2:14	And he found in the Temple those that sold oxen, and sheepe, and doues, and changers of money, sitting there.
John 2:15	Then hee made a scourge of small cordes, and draue them all out of the Temple with the sheepe and oxen, and powred out the changers money, and ouerthrewe the tables,
John 2:16	And said vnto them that solde doues, Take these things hence: make not my fathers house, an house of marchandise.
John 2:17	And his disciples remembred, that it was written, The zeale of thine house hath eaten me vp.
John 2:18	Then answered the Iewes, and saide vnto him, What signe shewest thou vnto vs, that thou doest these things?
John 2:19	Iesus answered, and said vnto them, Destroy this Temple, and in three daies I will raise it vp againe.
John 2:20	Then said the Iewes, Fourtie and sixe yeeres was this Temple a building, and wilt thou reare it vp in three daies?
John 2:21	But he spake of the temple of his bodie.
John 2:22	Assoone therefore as he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembred that hee thus sayde vnto them: and they beleeued the Scripture, and the worde which Iesus had saide.
John 2:23	Nowe when hee was at Hierusalem at the Passeouer in the feast, many beleeued in his Name, when they sawe his miracles which he did.
John 2:24	But Iesus did not commit him selfe vnto them, because he knewe them all,
John 2:25	And had no neede that any should testifie of man: for he knewe what was in man.
John 3:1	There was nowe a man of the Pharises, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Iewes.
John 3:2	This man came to Iesus by night, and sayd vnto him, Rabbi, we knowe ye thou art a teacher come from God: for no man could do these miracles that thou doest, except God were with him.
John 3:3	Iesus answered, and said vnto him, Verely, verely I say vnto thee, except a man be borne againe, he can not see the kingdome of God.
John 3:4	Nicodemus sayde vnto him, Howe can a man be borne which is olde? can he enter into his mothers wombe againe, and be borne?
John 3:5	Iesus answered, Verely, verely I say vnto thee, except that a man be borne of water and of the Spirite, hee can not enter into the kingdome of God.
John 3:6	That which is borne of the flesh, is flesh: and that that is borne of the Spirit, is spirit.
John 3:7	Marueile not that I said to thee, Yee must be borne againe.
John 3:8	The winde bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it commeth, and whither it goeth: so is euery man that is borne of the Spirit.
John 3:9	Nicodemus answered, and said vnto him, Howe can these things be?
John 3:10	Iesus answered, and saide vnto him, Art thou a teacher of Israel, and knowest not these things?
John 3:11	Verely, verely I say vnto thee, wee speake that we know, and testifie that we haue seene: but yee receiue not our witnesse.
John 3:12	If when I tel you earthly things, ye beleeue not, howe should yee beleeue, if I shall tel you of heauenly things?
John 3:13	For no man ascendeth vp to heauen, but he that hath descended from heauen, that Sonne of man which is in heauen.
John 3:14	And as Moses lift vp the serpent in the wildernesse, so must that Sonne of man be lift vp,
John 3:15	That whosoeuer beleeueth in him, shoulde not perish, but haue eternall life.
John 3:16	For God so loued the worlde, that hee hath giuen his onely begotten Sonne, that whosoeuer beleeueth in him, should not perish, but haue euerlasting life.
John 3:17	For God sent not his Sonne into the world, that he should condemne the world, but that the world through him might be saued.
John 3:18	Hee that beleeueth in him, is not condemned: but hee that beleeueth not, is condemned already, because he hath not beleeued in the Name of that onely begotten Sonne of God.
John 3:19	And this is the condemnation, that that light came into the worlde, and men loued darknesse rather then that light, because their deedes were euill.
John 3:20	For euery man that euill doeth, hateth the light, neither commeth to light, least his deedes should be reprooued.
John 3:21	But he that doeth trueth, commeth to the light, that his deedes might bee made manifest, that they are wrought according to God.
John 3:22	After these things, came Iesus and his disciples into the lande of Iudea, and there taried with them, and baptized.
John 3:23	And Iohn also baptized in Enon besides Salim, because there was much water there: and they came, and were baptized.
John 3:24	For Iohn was not yet cast into prison.
John 3:25	Then there arose a question betweene Iohns disciples and the Iewes, about purifying.
John 3:26	And they came vnto Iohn, and saide vnto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Iorden, to whom thou barest witnesse, behold, he baptizeth, and all men come to him.
John 3:27	Iohn answered, and saide, A man can receiue nothing, except it be giuen him from heauen.
John 3:28	Yee your selues are my witnesses, that I sayde, I am not that Christ, but that I am sent before him.
John 3:29	He that hath the bride, is the bridegrome: but the friend of the bridegrome which standeth and heareth him, reioyceth greatly, because of the bridegromes voyce. This my ioy therefore is fulfilled.
John 3:30	He must increase, but I must decrease.
John 3:31	Hee that is come from an hie, is aboue all: he that is of the earth, is of the earth, and speaketh of the earth: hee that is come from heauen, is aboue all.
John 3:32	And what hee hath seene and heard, that he testifieth: but no man receiueth his testimonie.
John 3:33	He that hath receiued his testimonie, hath sealed that God is true.
John 3:34	For hee whome God hath sent, speaketh the woordes of God: for God giueth him not the Spirit by measure.
John 3:35	The Father loueth the Sonne, and hath giuen all things into his hande.
John 3:36	Hee that beleeueth in the Sonne, hath euerlasting life, and hee that obeyeth not the Sonne, shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him.
John 4:1	Nowe when the Lord knew, how the Pharises had heard, that Iesus made and baptized moe disciples then Iohn,
John 4:2	(Though Iesus himselfe baptized not: but his disciples)
John 4:3	Hee left Iudea, and departed againe into Galile.
John 4:4	And he must needes goe through Samaria.
John 4:5	Then came hee to a citie of Samaria called Sychar, neere vnto the possession that Iacob gaue to his sonne Ioseph.
John 4:6	And there was Iacobs well. Iesus then wearied in the iourney, sate thus on the well: it was about the sixt houre.
John 4:7	There came a woman of Samaria to drawe water. Iesus sayd vnto her, Giue me drinke.
John 4:8	For his disciples were gone away into the citie, to buy meate.
John 4:9	Then sayde the woman of Samaria vnto him, Howe is it, that thou being a Iewe, askest drinke of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Iewes meddle not with the Samaritans.
John 4:10	Iesus answered and saide vnto her, If thou knewest that gift of God, and who it is that saieth to thee, Giue mee drinke, thou wouldest haue asked of him, and hee woulde haue giuen thee, water of life.
John 4:11	The woman saide vnto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to drawe with, and the well is deepe: from whence then hast thou that water of life?
John 4:12	Art thou greater then our father Iacob, which gaue vs the well, and hee himselfe dranke thereof, and his sonnes, and his cattell?
John 4:13	Iesus answered, and said vnto her, Whosoeuer drinketh of this water, shall thirst againe:
John 4:14	But whosoeuer drinketh of the water that I shall giue him, shall neuer be more a thirst: but the water that I shall giue him, shalbe in him a well of water, springing vp into euerlasting life.
John 4:15	The woman said vnto him, Syr, giue me of that water, that I may not thirst, neither come hither to drawe.
John 4:16	Iesus said vnto her, Go, call thine husband, and come hither.
John 4:17	The woman answered, and saide, I haue no husband. Iesus said vnto her, Thou hast well said, I haue no husband.
John 4:18	For thou hast had fiue husbands, and he whom thou nowe hast, is not thine husband: that saidest thou truely.
John 4:19	The woman saide vnto him, Sir, I see that thou art a Prophet.
John 4:20	Our fathers worshipped in this mountaine, and ye say, that in Ierusalem is the place where men ought to worship.
John 4:21	Iesus saide vnto her, Woman, beleeue me, the houre commeth, when ye shall neither in this mountaine, nor at Hierusalem worship ye Father.
John 4:22	Ye worship that which ye knowe not: we worship that which we knowe: for saluation is of the Iewes.
John 4:23	But the houre commeth, and nowe is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit, and trueth: for the Father requireth euen such to worship him.
John 4:24	God is a Spirite, and they that worship him, must worship him in spirit and trueth.
John 4:25	The woman said vnto him, I knowe well that Messias shall come which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell vs all things.
John 4:26	Iesus said vnto her, I am he, that speake vnto thee.
John 4:27	And vpon that, came his disciples, and marueiled that he talked with a woman: yet no man said vnto him, What askest thou? or why talkest thou with her?
John 4:28	The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the citie, and said to the men,
John 4:29	Come, see a man which hath tolde me all things that euer I did: is not he that Christ?
John 4:30	Then they went out of the citie, and came vnto him.
John 4:31	In the meane while, the disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eate.
John 4:32	But he said vnto them, I haue meate to eate that ye know not of.
John 4:33	Then said ye disciples betweene themselues, Hath any man brought him meate?
John 4:34	Iesus saide vnto them, My meate is that I may doe the will of him that sent me, and finish his worke.
John 4:35	Say not ye, There are yet foure moneths, and then commeth haruest? Beholde, I say vnto you, Lift vp your eyes, and looke on the regions: for they are white alreadie vnto haruest.
John 4:36	And he that reapeth, receiueth rewarde, and gathereth fruite vnto life eternall, that both he that soweth, and he that reapeth, might reioyce together.
John 4:37	For herein is the saying true, that one soweth, and an other reapeth.
John 4:38	I sent you to reape that, whereon ye bestowed no labour: other men laboured, and ye are entred into their labours.
John 4:39	Nowe many of the Samaritans of that citie beleeued in him, for the saying of the woman which testified, He hath tolde me all things that euer I did.
John 4:40	Then when the Samaritans were come vnto him, they besought him, that he woulde tarie with them: and he abode there two dayes.
John 4:41	And many moe beleeued because of his owne word.
John 4:42	And they said vnto the woman, Nowe we beleeue, not because of thy saying: for we haue heard him our selues, and knowe that this is in deede that Christ the Sauiour of the world.
John 4:43	So two dayes after he departed thence, and went into Galile.
John 4:44	For Iesus himselfe had testified, that a Prophet hath none honour in his owne countrey.
John 4:45	Then when he was come into Galile, the Galileans receiued him, which had seene all the things that he did at Hierusalem at the feast: for they went also vnto the feast.
John 4:46	And Iesus came againe into Cana a towne of Galile, where he had made of water, wine. And there was a certaine ruler, whose sonne was sicke at Capernaum.
John 4:47	When he heard that Iesus was come out of Iudea into Galile, he went vnto him, and besought him that he would goe downe, and heale his sonne: for he was euen ready to die.
John 4:48	Then saide Iesus vnto him, Except ye see signes and wonders, ye will not beleeue.
John 4:49	The ruler said vnto him, Syr, goe downe before my sonne dye.
John 4:50	Iesus said vnto him, Go thy way, thy sonne liueth: and the man beleeued the worde that Iesus had spoken vnto him, and went his way.
John 4:51	And as he was nowe going downe, his seruants met him, saying, Thy sonne liueth.
John 4:52	Then enquired he of them the houre when he began to amend. And they said vnto him, Yesterday the seuenth houre the feuer left him.
John 4:53	Then the father knew, that it was the same houre in the which Iesus had said vnto him, Thy sonne liueth. And he beleeued, and all his houshold.
John 4:54	This second miracle did Iesus againe, after he was come out of Iudea into Galile.
John 5:1	After that, there was a feast of the Iewes, and Iesus went vp to Hierusalem.
John 5:2	And there is at Hierusalem by the place of the sheepe, a poole called in Ebrew Bethesda, hauing fiue porches:
John 5:3	In the which lay a great multitude of sicke folke, of blinde, halte, and withered, wayting for the mouing of the water.
John 5:4	For an Angel went downe at a certaine season into the poole, and troubled the water: whosoeuer then first, after the stirring of the water, stepped in, was made whole of whatsoeuer disease he had.
John 5:5	And a certaine man was there, which had bene diseased eight and thirtie yeeres.
John 5:6	When Iesus sawe him lie, and knew that he nowe long time had bene diseased, he saide vnto him, Wilt thou be made whole?
John 5:7	The sicke man answered him, Sir, I haue no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the poole: but while I am comming, another steppeth downe before me.
John 5:8	Iesus said vnto him, Rise: take vp thy bed, and walke.
John 5:9	And immediatly the man was made whole, and tooke vp his bed, and walked: and the same day was the Sabbath.
John 5:10	The Iewes therefore said to him that was made whole, It is the Sabbath day: it is not lawfull for thee to cary thy bed.
John 5:11	He answered them, He that made me whole, he said vnto me, Take vp thy bed, and walke.
John 5:12	Then asked they him, What man is that which said vnto thee, Take vp thy bed and walke?
John 5:13	And he that was healed, knewe not who it was: for Iesus had conueied himselfe away from the multitude that was in that place.
John 5:14	And after that, Iesus founde him in the Temple, and said vnto him, Beholde, thou art made whole: sinne no more, lest a worse thing come vnto thee.
John 5:15	The man departed and tolde the Iewes that it was Iesus, which had made him whole.
John 5:16	And therefore the Iewes did persecute Iesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these things on the Sabbath day.
John 5:17	But Iesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I worke.
John 5:18	Therefore the Iewes sought the more to kill him: not onely because he had broken the Sabbath: but said also that God was his Father, and made himselfe equall with God.
John 5:19	Then answered Iesus, and said vnto them, Verely, verely I say vnto you, The Sonne can doe nothing of himselfe, saue that he seeth the Father doe: for whatsoeuer things he doth, the same things doeth the Sonne in like maner.
John 5:20	For the Father loueth the Sonne, and sheweth him all things, whatsoeuer he himselfe doeth, and he will shewe him greater workes then these, that ye should marueile.
John 5:21	For likewise as the Father rayseth vp the dead, and quickeneth them, so the Sonne quickeneth whom he will.
John 5:22	For the Father iudgeth no man, but hath committed all iudgement vnto the Sonne,
John 5:23	Because that all men shoulde honour the Sonne, as they honour the Father: he that honoureth not the Sonne, the same honoureth not the Father, which hath sent him.
John 5:24	Verely, verely I say vnto you, he that heareth my worde, and beleeueth him that sent me, hath euerlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but hath passed from death vnto life.
John 5:25	Verely, verely I say vnto you, the houre shall come, and now is, when the dead shall heare the voyce of the Sonne of God: and they that heare it, shall liue.
John 5:26	For as the Father hath life in himselfe, so likewise hath he giuen to the Sonne to haue life in himselfe,
John 5:27	And hath giuen him power also to execute iudgement, in that he is the Sonne of man.
John 5:28	Marueile not at this: for the houre shall come, in the which all that are in the graues, shall heare his voyce.
John 5:29	And they shall come foorth, that haue done good, vnto ye resurrection of life: but they that haue done euil, vnto the resurrection of condemnation.
John 5:30	I can doe nothing of mine owne selfe: as I heare, I iudge: and my iudgement is iust, because I seeke not mine owne will, but the will of the Father who hath sent me.
John 5:31	If I should beare witnesse of my selfe, my witnesse were not true.
John 5:32	There is another that beareth witnesse of me, and I know that the witnesse, which he beareth of me, is true.
John 5:33	Ye sent vnto Iohn, and he bare witnesse vnto the trueth.
John 5:34	But I receiue not the record of man: neuerthelesse these things I say, that ye might be saued.
John 5:35	He was a burning, and a shining candle: and ye would for a season haue reioyced in his light.
John 5:36	But I haue greater witnesse then the witnesse of Iohn: for the workes which the Father hath giuen me to finish, the same workes that I doe, beare witnesse of me, that the Father sent me.
John 5:37	And the Father himselfe, which hath sent me, beareth witnesse of me. Ye haue not heard his voyce at any time, neither haue ye seene his shape.
John 5:38	And his worde haue you not abiding in you: for whom he hath sent, him ye beleeued not.
John 5:39	Searche the Scriptures: for in them ye thinke to haue eternall life, and they are they which testifie of me.
John 5:40	But ye will not come to me, that ye might haue life.
John 5:41	I receiue not the prayse of men.
John 5:42	But I know you, that ye haue not the loue of God in you.
John 5:43	I am come in my Fathers Name, and ye receiue me not: if another shall come in his owne name, him will ye receiue.
John 5:44	How can ye beleeue, which receiue honour one of another, and seeke not the honour that commeth of God alone?
John 5:45	Doe not thinke that I will accuse you to my Father: there is one that accuseth you, euen Moses, in whom ye trust.
John 5:46	For had ye beleeued Moses, ye would haue beleeued me: for he wrote of me.
John 5:47	But if ye beleeue not his writings, how shall ye beleeue my wordes?
John 6:1	After these thinges, Iesus went his way ouer the sea of Galile, which is Tiberias.
John 6:2	And a great multitude followed him, because they sawe his miracles, which hee did on them that were diseased.
John 6:3	Then Iesus went vp into a mountaine, and there he sate with his disciples.
John 6:4	Now the Passeouer, a feast of the Iewes, was neere.
John 6:5	Then Iesus lift vp his eyes, and seeing that a great multitude came vnto him, hee sayde vnto Philippe, Whence shall we buy breade, that these might eate?
John 6:6	(And this he sayde to prooue him: for hee himselfe knewe what he would doe.)
John 6:7	Philippe answered him, Two hundreth penie worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that euery one of them may take a litle.
John 6:8	Then saide vnto him one of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peters brother,
John 6:9	There is a little boy heere, which hath fiue barlie loaues, and two fishes: but what are they among so many?
John 6:10	And Iesus saide, Make ye people sit downe. (Nowe there was much grasse in that place.) Then the men sate downe in nomber, about fiue thousande.
John 6:11	And Iesus tooke the bread, and gaue thanks, and gaue to the disciples, and the disciples, to them that were set downe: and likewise of the fishes as much as they would.
John 6:12	And when they were satisfied, he said vnto his disciples, Gather vp the broken meat which remaineth, that nothing be lost.
John 6:13	Then they gathered it together, and filled twelue baskets with the broken meat of the fiue barly loaues, which remained vnto them that had eaten.
John 6:14	Then the men, when they had seene the miracle that Iesus did, saide, This is of a trueth that Prophet that should come into the world.
John 6:15	When Iesus therfore perceiued that they would come, and take him to make him a King, hee departed againe into a mountaine himselfe alone.
John 6:16	When euen was nowe come, his disciples went downe vnto the sea,
John 6:17	And entred into a shippe, and went ouer the sea, towardes Capernaum: and nowe it was darke, and Iesus was not come to them.
John 6:18	And the Sea arose with a great winde that blewe.
John 6:19	And when they had rowed about fiue and twentie, or thirtie furlongs, they sawe Iesus walking on the sea, and drawing neere vnto the ship: so they were afraide.
John 6:20	But he said vnto them, It is I: be not afraid.
John 6:21	Then willingly they receiued him into the ship, and the ship was by and by at the lande, whither they went.
John 6:22	The day following, the people which stoode on the other side of the sea, saw that there was none other ship there, saue that one, whereinto his disciples were entred, and that Iesus went not with his disciples in the ship, but that his disciples were gone alone,
John 6:23	And that there came other ships from Tiberias neere vnto the place where they ate the bread, after the Lord had giuen thankes.
John 6:24	Nowe when the people sawe that Iesus was not there, neither his disciples, they also tooke shipping, and came to Capernaum, seeking for Iesus.
John 6:25	And when they had founde him on the other side of the sea, they sayde vnto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither?
John 6:26	Iesus answered them; and sayde, Verely, verely I say vnto you, ye seeke me not because ye sawe the miracles, but because yee ate of ye loaues, and were filled.
John 6:27	Labour not for ye meate which perisheth, but for the meate that endureth vnto euerlasting life, which the Sonne of man shall giue vnto you: for him hath God the Father sealed.
John 6:28	Then sayde they vnto him, What shall we doe, that we might worke the workes of God?
John 6:29	Iesus answered, and sayde vnto them, This is the woorke of God, that yee beleeue in him, whome he hath sent.
John 6:30	They sayde therefore vnto him, What signe shewest thou then, that we may see it, and beleeue thee? what doest thou woorke?
John 6:31	Our fathers did eate Manna in the desart, as it is written, Hee gaue them bread from heauen to eate.
John 6:32	Then Iesus said vnto them, Verely, verely I say vnto you, Moses gaue you not that bread from heauen, but my Father giueth you that true bread from heauen.
John 6:33	For the breade of God is hee which commeth downe from heauen, and giueth life vnto the world.
John 6:34	Then they said vnto him, Lord, euermore giue vs this bread.
John 6:35	And Iesus saide vnto them, I am that bread of life: he that commeth to me, shall not hunger, and he that beleeueth in me, shall neuer thirst.
John 6:36	But I said vnto you, that ye also haue seene me, and beleeue not.
John 6:37	All that the Father giueth me, shall come to mee: and him that commeth to me, I cast not away.
John 6:38	For I came downe from heauen, not to do mine owne wil, but his wil which hath sent me.
John 6:39	And this is the Fathers will which hath sent mee, that of all which hee hath giuen mee, I should lose nothing, but shoulde raise it vp againe at the last day.
John 6:40	And this is the will of him that sent mee, that euery man which seeth the Sonne, and beleeueth in him, should haue euerlasting life: and I will raise him vp at the last day.
John 6:41	The Iewes then murmured at him because hee sayde, I am that bread, which is come downe from heauen.
John 6:42	And they said, Is not this Iesus that sonne of Ioseph, whose father and mother wee knowe? howe then sayth he, I came downe from heauen?
John 6:43	Iesus then answered, and saide vnto them, Murmure not among your selues.
John 6:44	No man can come to mee, except the Father, which hath sent mee, drawe him: and I will raise him vp at the last day.
John 6:45	It is written in the Prophetes, And they shalbe al taught of God. Euery man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father, commeth vnto me:
John 6:46	Not that any man hath seene the Father, saue hee which is of God, hee hath seene the Father.
John 6:47	Verely, verely I say vnto you, hee that beleeueth in me, hath euerlasting life.
John 6:48	I am that bread of life.
John 6:49	Your fathers did eate Manna in the wildernesse, and are dead.
John 6:50	This is that breade, which commeth downe from heauen, that hee which eateth of it, shoulde not die.
John 6:51	I am that liuing breade, which came downe from heauen: if any man eate of this breade, hee shall liue for euer: and the bread that I will giue, is my flesh, which I will giue for the life of the world.
John 6:52	Then the Iewes stroue among themselues, saying, Howe can this man giue vs his flesh to eate?
John 6:53	Then Iesus saide vnto them, Verely, verely I say vnto you, Except yee eate the flesh of the Sonne of man, and drinke his blood, yee haue no life in you.
John 6:54	Whosoeuer eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternall life, and I will raise him vp at the last day.
John 6:55	For my flesh is meat in deede, and my blood is drinke in deede.
John 6:56	Hee that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him.
John 6:57	As that liuing Father hath sent me, so liue I by the Father, and he that eateth me, euen he shall liue by me.
John 6:58	This is that bread which came downe from heauen: not as your fathers haue eaten Manna, and are deade. Hee that eateth of this bread, shall liue for euer.
John 6:59	These things spake he in the Synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.
John 6:60	Many therefore of his disciples (when they heard this) sayde, This is an hard saying: who can heare it?
John 6:61	But Iesus knowing in himselfe, that his disciples murmured at this, saide vnto them, Doeth this offend you?
John 6:62	What then if yee should see that Sonne of man ascend vp where he was before?
John 6:63	It is the spirite that quickeneth: the flesh profiteth nothing: the woordes that I speake vnto you, are spirite and life.
John 6:64	But there are some of you that beleeue not: for Iesus knewe from the beginning, which they were that beleeued not, and who shoulde betray him.
John 6:65	And hee saide, Therefore saide I vnto you, that no man can come vnto mee, except it be giuen vnto him of my Father.
John 6:66	From that time, many of his disciples went backe, and walked no more with him.
John 6:67	Then sayde Iesus to the twelue, Will yee also goe away?
John 6:68	Then Simon Peter answered him, Master, to whome shall we goe? thou hast the wordes of eternall life:
John 6:69	And we beleeue and knowe that thou art that Christ that Sonne of the liuing God.
John 6:70	Iesus answered them, Haue not I chosen you twelue, and one of you is a deuill?
John 6:71	Now he spake it of Iudas Iscariot the sonne of Simon: for hee it was that shoulde betraie him, though he was one of the twelue.
John 7:1	After these things, Iesus walked in Galile, and woulde not walke in Iudea: for the Iewes sought to kill him.
John 7:2	Nowe the Iewes feast of the Tabernacles was at hande.
John 7:3	His brethren therefore sayde vnto him, Depart hence, and goe into Iudea, that thy disciples may see thy woorkes that thou doest.
John 7:4	For there is no man that doeth any thing secretely, and hee himselfe seeketh to be famous. If thou doest these things, shewe thy selfe to the worlde.
John 7:5	For as yet his brethren beleeued not in him.
John 7:6	Then Iesus saide vnto them, My time is not yet come: but your time is alway readie.
John 7:7	The world can not hate you: but me it hateth, because I testifie of it, that the workes thereof are euill.
John 7:8	Go ye vp vnto this feast: I wil not go vp yet vnto this feast: for my time is not yet fulfilled.
John 7:9	These things he sayde vnto them, and abode still in Galile.
John 7:10	But assoone as his brethren were gone vp, then went hee also vp vnto the feast, not openly, but as it were priuilie.
John 7:11	Then the Iewes sought him at the feast, and saide, Where is hee?
John 7:12	And much murmuring was there of him among the people. Some said, He is a good man: other sayd, Nay: but he deceiueth the people.
John 7:13	Howbeit no man spake openly of him for feare of the Iewes.
John 7:14	Nowe when halfe the feast was done, Iesus went vp into the Temple and taught.
John 7:15	And the Iewes marueiled, saving, Howe knoweth this man the Scriptures, seeing that hee neuer learned!
John 7:16	Iesus answered them, and saide, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me.
John 7:17	If any man will doe his will, he shall knowe of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speake of my selfe.
John 7:18	Hee that speaketh of himselfe, seeketh his owne glorie: but hee that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no vnrighteousnes is in him.
John 7:19	Did not Moses giue you a Law, and yet none of you keepeth the lawe? Why goe ye about to kill me?
John 7:20	The people answered, and said, Thou hast a deuil: who goeth about to kill thee?
John 7:21	Iesus answered, and saide to them, I haue done one worke, and ye all maruaile.
John 7:22	Moses therefore gaue vnto you circumcision, (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers) and ye on the Sabbath day circumcise a man.
John 7:23	If a man on the Sabbath receiue circumcision, that the Lawe of Moses should not be broken, be ye angrie with me, because I haue made a man euery whit whole on the Sabbath day?
John 7:24	Iudge not according to the appearance, but iudge righteous iudgement.
John 7:25	Then saide some of them of Hierusalem, Is not this he, whom they goe about to kill?
John 7:26	And beholde, he speaketh openly, and they say nothing to him: doe the rulers know in deede that this is in deede that Christ?
John 7:27	Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when that Christ commeth, no man shall knowe whence he is.
John 7:28	Then cried Iesus in the Temple as hee taught, saying, Ye both knowe mee, and knowe whence I am: yet am I not come of my selfe, but he that sent me, is true, whome ye knowe not.
John 7:29	But I knowe him: for I am of him, and he hath sent me.
John 7:30	Then they sought to take him, but no man layde handes on him, because his houre was not yet come.
John 7:31	Now many of the people beleeued in him, and said, When that Christ commeth, will he doe moe miracles then this man hath done?
John 7:32	The Pharises heard that the people murmured these thinges of him, and the Pharises, and high Priestes sent officers to take him.
John 7:33	Then saide Iesus vnto them, Yet am I a little while with you, and then goe I vnto him that sent mee.
John 7:34	Ye shall seeke me, and shall not finde me, and where I am, can ye not come.
John 7:35	Then saide the Iewes amongs themselues, Whither will he goe, that we shall not finde him? Will he goe vnto them that are dispersed among the Grecians, and teache the Grecians?
John 7:36	What saying is this that hee saide, Ye shall seeke mee, and shall not finde mee? and where I am, cannot ye come?
John 7:37	Nowe in the last and great day of the feast, Iesus stoode and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come vnto me, and drinke.
John 7:38	Hee that beleeueth in mee, as saith the Scripture, out of his bellie shall flowe riuers of water of life.
John 7:39	(This spake hee of the Spirite which they that beleeued in him, should receiue: for the holy Ghost was not yet giuen, because that Iesus was not yet glorified.)
John 7:40	So many of the people, when they heard this saying, said, Of a trueth this is that Prophet.
John 7:41	Other saide, This is that Christ: and some said, But shall that Christ come out of Galile?
John 7:42	Saith not the Scripture that that Christ shall come of the seede of Dauid, and out of the towne of Beth-leem, where Dauid was?
John 7:43	So was there dissension among the people for him.
John 7:44	And some of them would haue taken him, but no man layde handes on him.
John 7:45	Then came the officers to the hie Priests and Pharises, and they said vnto them, Why haue ye not brought him?
John 7:46	The officers answered, Neuer man spake like this man.
John 7:47	Then answered them the Pharises, Are yee also deceiued?
John 7:48	Doeth any of the rulers, or of the Pharises beleeue in him?
John 7:49	But this people, which know not the Law, are cursed.
John 7:50	Nicodemus said vnto them, (he that came to Iesus by night, and was one of them.)
John 7:51	Doth our Law iudge a man before it heare him, and knowe what he hath done?
John 7:52	They answered, and said vnto him, Art thou also of Galile? Searche and looke: for out of Galile ariseth no Prophet.
John 7:53	And euery man wet vnto his owne house.
John 8:1	And Iesus went vnto the mount of Oliues,
John 8:2	And early in the morning came againe into the Temple, and all the people came vnto him, and he sate downe, and taught them.
John 8:3	Then the Scribes, and the Pharises brought vnto him a woman, taken in adulterie, and set her in the middes,
John 8:4	And said vnto him, Master, we foud this woman committing adulterie, euen in the very acte.
John 8:5	Now Moses in our Law commanded, that such should be stoned: what sayest thou therefore?
John 8:6	And this they saide to tempt him, that they might haue, whereof to accuse him. But Iesus stouped downe, and with his finger wrote on the groud.
John 8:7	And while they continued asking him, hee lift himselfe vp, and sayde vnto them, Let him that is among you without sinne, cast the first stone at her.
John 8:8	And againe hee stouped downe, and wrote on the ground.
John 8:9	And when they heard it, being accused by their owne conscience, they went out one by one, beginning at ye eldest euen to the last: so Iesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the mids.
John 8:10	When Iesus had lift vp himselfe againe, and sawe no man, but the woman, hee saide vnto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee?
John 8:11	She said, No man, Lord. And Iesus said, Neither do I condemne thee: go and sinne no more.
John 8:12	Then spake Iesus againe vnto them, saying, I am that light of the worlde: hee that followeth mee, shall not walke in darkenes, but shall haue that light of life.
John 8:13	The Pharises therefore saide vnto him, Thou bearest recorde of thy selfe: thy recorde is not true.
John 8:14	Iesus answered, and sayde vnto them, Though I beare recorde of my selfe, yet my recorde is true: for I know whence I came, and whither I go: but ye cannot tell whence I come, and whither I goe.
John 8:15	Ye iudge after the flesh: I iudge no man.
John 8:16	And if I also iudge, my iudgement is true: for I am not alone, but I, and the Father, that sent mee.
John 8:17	And it is also written in your Lawe, that the testimonie of two men is true.
John 8:18	I am one that beare witnes of my selfe, and the Father that sent me, beareth witnes of me.
John 8:19	Then saide they vnto him, Where is that Father of thine? Iesus answered, Ye neither know me, nor that Father of mine. If ye had knowen me, ye should haue knowen that Father of mine also.
John 8:20	These wordes spake Iesus in the treasurie, as hee taught in the Temple, and no man layde handes on him: for his houre was not yet come.
John 8:21	Then saide Iesus againe vnto them, I goe my way, and ye shall seeke me, and shall die in your sinnes, Whither I goe, can ye not come.
John 8:22	Then said the Iewes, Will he kill himselfe, because he saith, Whither I goe, can ye not come?
John 8:23	And hee saide vnto them, Ye are from beneath, I am from aboue: ye are of this world, I am not of this worlde.
John 8:24	I said therefore vnto you, That ye shall die in your sinnes: for except ye beleeue, that I am he, ye shall die in your sinnes.
John 8:25	Then saide they vnto him, Who art thou? And Iesus saide vnto them, Euen the same thing that I said vnto you from the beginning.
John 8:26	I haue many things to say, and to iudge of you: but he that sent me, is true, and the things that I haue heard of him, those speake I to the world.
John 8:27	They vnderstoode not that hee spake to them of the Father.
John 8:28	Then said Iesus vnto them, When ye haue lift vp the Sonne of man, then shall ye know that I am he, and that I doe nothing of my selfe, but as my Father hath taught me, so I speake these things.
John 8:29	For he that sent me, is with me: the Father hath not left me alone, because I do alwayes those things that please him.
John 8:30	As hee spake these thinges, many beleeued in him.
John 8:31	Then saide Iesus to the Iewes which beleeued in him, If ye continue in my worde, ye are verely my disciples,
John 8:32	And shall know the trueth, and the trueth shall make you free.
John 8:33	They answered him, Wee be Abrahams seede, and were neuer bonde to any man: why sayest thou then, Ye shalbe made free?
John 8:34	Iesus answered them, Verely, verely I say vnto you, that whosoeuer committeth sinne, is the seruant of sinne.
John 8:35	And the seruant abideth not in the house for euer: but the Sonne abideth for euer.
John 8:36	If that Sonne therefore shall make you free, ye shalbe free in deede.
John 8:37	I know that ye are Abrahams seede, but yee seeke to kill mee, because my worde hath no place in you.
John 8:38	I speake that which I haue seene with my Father: and ye doe that which ye haue seene with your father.
John 8:39	They answered, and saide vnto him, Abraham is our father. Iesus said vnto them, If ye were Abrahams children, ye woulde doe the workes of Abraham.
John 8:40	But nowe ye goe about to kill mee, a man that haue told you the trueth, which I haue heard of God: this did not Abraham.
John 8:41	Ye do the workes of your father. Then said they to him, We are not borne of fornication: we haue one Father, which is God.
John 8:42	Therefore Iesus sayde vnto them, If God were your Father, then woulde ye loue mee: for I proceeded foorth, and came from God, neither came I of my selfe, but he sent me.
John 8:43	Why doe ye not vnderstande my talke? because ye cannot heare my worde.
John 8:44	Ye are of your father the deuill, and the lustes of your father ye will doe: hee hath bene a murtherer from the beginning, and abode not in the trueth, because there is no trueth in him. When hee speaketh a lie, then speaketh hee of his owne: for he is a liar, and the father thereof.
John 8:45	And because I tell you the trueth, yee beleeue me not.
John 8:46	Which of you can rebuke me of sinne? and if I say the trueth, why do ye not beleeue me?
John 8:47	He that is of God, heareth Gods wordes: yee therefore heare them not, because ye are not of God.
John 8:48	Then answered the Iewes, and said vnto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritane, and hast a deuil?
John 8:49	Iesus answered, I haue not a deuil, but I honour my Father, and ye haue dishonoured me.
John 8:50	And I seeke not mine owne praise: but there is one that seeketh it, and iudgeth.
John 8:51	Verely, verely I say vnto you, If a man keepe my word, he shall neuer see death.
John 8:52	Then said the Iewes to him, Now know we that thou hast a deuill. Abraham is dead, and the Prophets: and thou sayest, If a man keepe my worde, he shall neuer taste of death.
John 8:53	Art thou greater then our father Abraham, which is dead? and the Prophets are dead: whome makest thou thy selfe?
John 8:54	Iesus answered, If I honour my selfe, mine honour is nothing worth: it is my Father that honoureth me, whome ye say, that hee is your God.
John 8:55	Yet ye haue not knowen him: but I knowe him, and if I should say I know him not, I should be a liar like vnto you: but I knowe him, and keepe his worde.
John 8:56	Your father Abraham reioyced to see my day, and he sawe it, and was glad.
John 8:57	Then sayd ye Iewes vnto him, Thou art not yet fiftie yeere olde, and hast thou seene Abraham?
John 8:58	Iesus sayd vnto them, Verely, verely I say vnto you, before Abraham was, I am.
John 8:59	Then tooke they vp stones, to cast at him, but Iesus hid himselfe, and went out of the Temple: And hee passed through the middes of them, and so went his way.
John 9:1	And as Iesus passed by, he sawe a man which was blinde from his birth.
John 9:2	And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sinne, this man, or his parents, that he was borne blinde?
John 9:3	Iesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents, but that the workes of God should be shewed on him.
John 9:4	I must worke the workes of him that sent me, while it is day: the night commeth when no man can worke.
John 9:5	As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.
John 9:6	Assoone as he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spettle, and anointed the eyes of the blinde with the clay,
John 9:7	And sayd vnto him, Go wash in the poole of Siloam (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and washed, and came againe seeing.
John 9:8	Nowe the neighbours and they that had seene him before, when he was blinde, sayd, Is not this he that sate and begged?
John 9:9	Some said, This is he: and other sayd, He is like him: but he himselfe sayd, I am he.
John 9:10	Therefore they sayd vnto him, Howe were thine eyes opened?
John 9:11	He answered, and sayd, The man that is called Iesus, made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and sayde vnto me, Goe to the poole of Siloam and wash. So I went and washed, and receiued sight.
John 9:12	Then they sayd vnto him, Where is he? He sayd, I can not tell.
John 9:13	They brought to the Pharises him that was once blinde.
John 9:14	And it was the Sabbath day, when Iesus made the clay, and opened his eyes.
John 9:15	Then againe the Pharises also asked him, how he had receiued sight. And hee sayd vnto them, He layd clay vpon mine eyes, and I washed, and doe see.
John 9:16	Then said some of the Pharises, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the Sabbath day. Others sayd, Howe can a man that is a sinner, doe such miracles? and there was a dissension among them.
John 9:17	Then spake they vnto the blinde againe, What sayest thou of him, because he hath opened thine eyes? And he sayd, He is a Prophet.
John 9:18	Then the Iewes did not beleeue him (that he had bene blinde, and receiued his sight) vntill they had called the parents of him that had receiued sight.
John 9:19	And they asked them, saying, Is this your sonne, whom ye say was borne blinde? How doeth he nowe see then?
John 9:20	His parents answered them, and sayd, We know that this is our sonne, and that he was borne blinde:
John 9:21	But by what meanes hee nowe seeth, we know not: or who hath opened his eyes, can we not tell: he is olde ynough: aske him: hee shall answere for himselfe.
John 9:22	These wordes spake his parents, because they feared the Iewes: for the Iewes had ordeined already, that if any man did confesse that he was Christ, he should be excommunicate out of the Synagogue.
John 9:23	Therefore sayde his parents, Hee is olde ynough: aske him.
John 9:24	Then againe called they the man that had bene blinde, and sayd vnto him, Giue glory vnto God: we know that this man is a sinner.
John 9:25	Then he answered, and sayd, Whether hee be a sinner or no, I can not tell: one thing I know, that I was blinde, and nowe I see.
John 9:26	Then sayd they to him againe, What did he to thee? howe opened he thine eyes?
John 9:27	Hee answered them, I haue tolde you already, and yee haue not heard it: wherefore would yee heare it againe? will yee also be his disciples?
John 9:28	Then reuiled they him, and sayd, Be thou his disciple: we be Moses disciples.
John 9:29	We know that God spake with Moses: but this man we know not from whence he is.
John 9:30	The man answered, and sayde vnto them, Doutlesse, this is a marueilous thing, that ye know not whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes.
John 9:31	Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him heareth he.
John 9:32	Since the world began, was it not heard, that any man opened the eyes of one that was borne blinde.
John 9:33	If this man were not of God, hee could haue done nothing.
John 9:34	They answered, and sayd vnto him, Thou art altogether borne in sinnes, and doest thou teach vs? so they cast him out.
John 9:35	Iesus heard that they had cast him out: and when he had found him, he sayd vnto him, Doest thou beleeue in the Sonne of God?
John 9:36	He answered, and sayd, Who is he, Lord, that I might beleeue in him?
John 9:37	And Iesus sayd vnto him, Both thou hast seene him, and he it is that talketh with thee.
John 9:38	Then he sayd, Lord, I beleeue, and worshipped him.
John 9:39	And Iesus sayd, I am come vnto iudgement into this world, that they which see not, might see: and that they which see, might be made blinde.
John 9:40	And some of the Pharises which were with him, heard these things, and sayd vnto him, Are we blinde also?
John 9:41	Iesus sayd vnto them, If ye were blinde, ye should not haue sinne: but nowe ye say, We see: therefore your sinne remaineth.
John 10:1	Verely, verely I say vnto you, Hee that entreth not in by the doore into the sheepefolde, but climeth vp another way, he is a theefe and a robber.
John 10:2	But he that goeth in by the doore, is the shepheard of the sheepe.
John 10:3	To him the porter openeth, and the sheepe heare his voyce, and he calleth his owne sheepe by name, and leadeth them out.
John 10:4	And when hee hath sent foorth his owne sheepe, he goeth before them, and the sheepe follow him: for they know his voyce.
John 10:5	And they will not follow a stranger, but they flee from him: for they know not the voyce of strangers.
John 10:6	This parable spake Iesus vnto them: but they vnderstoode not what things they were which he spake vnto them.
John 10:7	Then sayd Iesus vnto them againe, Verely, verely I say vnto you, I am that doore of the sheepe.
John 10:8	All, that euer came before me, are theeues and robbers: but the sheepe did not heare them.
John 10:9	I am that doore: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saued, and shall go in, and go out, and finde pasture.
John 10:10	The theefe commeth not, but for to steale, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might haue life, and haue it in abundance.
John 10:11	I am that good shepheard: that good shepheard giueth his life for his sheepe.
John 10:12	But an hireling, and hee which is not the shepheard, neither the sheepe are his owne, seeth the wolfe comming, and hee leaueth the sheepe, and fleeth, and the wolfe catcheth them, and scattreth the sheepe.
John 10:13	So the hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not for the sheepe.
John 10:14	I am that good shepheard, and knowe mine, and am knowen of mine.
John 10:15	As the Father knoweth me, so know I the Father: and I lay downe my life for my sheepe.
John 10:16	Other sheepe I haue also, which are not of this folde: them also must I bring, and they shall heare my voyce: and there shalbe one sheepefolde, and one shepheard.
John 10:17	Therefore doeth my Father loue me, because I lay downe my life, that I might take it againe.
John 10:18	No man taketh it from me, but I lay it downe of my selfe: I haue power to lay it downe, and haue power to take it againe: this commandement haue I receiued of my Father.
John 10:19	Then there was a dissension againe among the Iewes for these sayings,
John 10:20	And many of them sayd, He hath a deuill, and is mad: why heare ye him?
John 10:21	Other sayd, These are not the wordes of him that hath a deuill: can the deuill open the eyes of the blinde?
John 10:22	And it was at Hierusalem the feast of the Dedication, and it was winter.
John 10:23	And Iesus walked in the Temple, in Salomons porche.
John 10:24	Then came the Iewes round about him, and sayd vnto him, Howe long doest thou make vs dout? If thou be that Christ, tell vs plainely.
John 10:25	Iesus answered them, I tolde you, and ye beleeue not: the workes that I doe in my Fathers Name, they beare witnes of me.
John 10:26	But ye beleeue not: for ye are not of my sheepe, as I sayd vnto you.
John 10:27	My sheepe heare my voyce, and I knowe them, and they follow me,
John 10:28	And I giue vnto them eternall life, and they shall neuer perish, neither shall any plucke them out of mine hand.
John 10:29	My Father which gaue them me, is greater then all, and none is able to take them out of my Fathers hand.
John 10:30	I and my Father are one.
John 10:31	Then ye Iewes againe tooke vp stones, to stone him.
John 10:32	Iesus answered them, Many good workes haue I shewed you from my Father: for which of these workes doe ye stone me?
John 10:33	The Iewes answered him, saying, For the good worke we stone thee not, but for blasphemie, and that thou being a man, makest thy selfe God.
John 10:34	Iesus answered them, Is it not written in your Lawe, I sayd, Ye are gods?
John 10:35	If hee called them gods, vnto whome the worde of God was giuen, and the Scripture cannot be broken,
John 10:36	Say ye of him, whome the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the worlde, Thou blasphemest, because I said, I am the Sonne of God?
John 10:37	If I doe not the workes of my Father, beleeue me not.
John 10:38	But if I doe, then though ye beleeue not mee, yet beleeue the workes, that ye may knowe and beleeue, that the Father is in me, and I in him.
John 10:39	Againe they went about to take him: but he escaped out of their handes,
John 10:40	And went againe beyonde Iordan, into the place where Iohn first baptized, and there abode.
John 10:41	And many resorted vnto him, and saide, Iohn did no miracle: but all thinges that Iohn spake of this man, were true.
John 10:42	And many beleeued in him there.
John 11:1	And a certaine man was sicke, named Lazarus of Bethania, the towne of Marie, and her sister Martha.
John 11:2	(And it was that Mary which anointed the Lord with oyntment, and wiped his feete with her heare, whose brother Lazarus was sicke.)
John 11:3	Therefore his sisters sent vnto him, saying, Lord, beholde, he whome thou louest, is sicke.
John 11:4	When Iesus heard it, he saide, This sickenes is not vnto death, but for the glorie of God, that the Sonne of God might be glorified thereby.
John 11:5	Nowe Iesus loued Martha and her sister, and Lazarus.
John 11:6	And after he had heard that he was sicke, yet abode hee two dayes still in the same place where he was.
John 11:7	Then after that, said he to his disciples, Let vs goe into Iudea againe.
John 11:8	The disciples saide vnto him, Master, the Iewes lately sought to stone thee, and doest thou goe thither againe?
John 11:9	Iesus answered, Are there not twelue houres in the day? If a man walke in the day, hee stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world.
John 11:10	But if a man walke in the night, hee stumbleth, because there is no light in him.
John 11:11	These things spake he, and after, he said vnto them, Our friend Lazarus sleepeth: but I goe to wake him vp.
John 11:12	Then said his disciples, Lord, if he sleepe, he shalbe safe.
John 11:13	Howbeit, Iesus spake of his death: but they thought that he had spoken of the naturall sleepe.
John 11:14	Then saide Iesus vnto them plainely, Lazarus is dead.
John 11:15	And I am glad for your sakes, that I was not there, that ye may beleeue: but let vs go vnto him.
John 11:16	Then saide Thomas (which is called Didymus) vnto his felow disciples, Let vs also goe, that we may die with him.
John 11:17	Then came Iesus, and found that he had lien in the graue foure dayes alreadie.
John 11:18	(Nowe Bethania was neere vnto Hierusalem, about fifteene furlongs off.)
John 11:19	And many of ye Iewes were come to Martha and Marie to comfort them for their brother.
John 11:20	Then Martha, when shee heard that Iesus was comming, went to meete him: but Mary sate still in the house.
John 11:21	Then said Martha vnto Iesus, Lord, if thou hadst bene here, my brother had not bene dead.
John 11:22	But now I know also, that whatsoeuer thou askest of God, God will giue it thee.
John 11:23	Iesus said vnto her, Thy brother shall rise againe.
John 11:24	Martha said vnto him, I know that he shall rise againe in the resurrection at the last day.
John 11:25	Iesus saide vnto her, I am the resurrection and the life: he that beleeueth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he liue.
John 11:26	And whosoeuer liueth, and beleeueth in me, shall neuer die: Beleeuest thou this?
John 11:27	She said vnto him, Yea, Lord, I beleeue that thou art that Christ that Sonne of God, which should come into the world.
John 11:28	And when she had so saide, she went her way, and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Master is come, and calleth for thee.
John 11:29	And when she heard it, shee arose quickly, and came vnto him.
John 11:30	For Iesus was not yet come into the towne, but was in the place where Martha met him.
John 11:31	The Iewes then which were with her in the house, and comforted her, when they sawe Marie, that she rose vp hastily, and went out, folowed her, saying, She goeth vnto the graue, to weepe there.
John 11:32	Then when Mary was come where Iesus was, and sawe him, she fell downe at his feete, saying vnto him, Lord, if thou haddest bene here, my brother had not bene dead.
John 11:33	When Iesus therefore saw her weepe, and the Iewes also weepe which came with her, hee groned in the spirit, and was troubled in himselfe,
John 11:34	And saide, Where haue ye layde him? They said vnto him, Lord, come and see.
John 11:35	And Iesus wept.
John 11:36	Then saide the Iewes, Beholde, how he loued him.
John 11:37	And some of them saide, Coulde not he, which opened the eyes of the blinde, haue made also, that this man should not haue died?
John 11:38	Iesus therefore againe groned in himselfe, and came to the graue. And it was a caue, and a stone was layde vpon it.
John 11:39	Iesus saide, Take ye away the stone. Martha the sister of him that was dead, said vnto him, Lord, he stinketh alreadie: for he hath bene dead foure dayes.
John 11:40	Iesus saide vnto her, Saide I not vnto thee, that if thou diddest beleeue, thou shouldest see the glorie of God?
John 11:41	Then they tooke away the stone from the place where the dead was layde. And Iesus lift vp his eyes, and saide, Father, I thanke thee, because thou hast heard me.
John 11:42	I knowe that thou hearest me alwayes, but because of the people that stand by, I said it, that they may beleeue, that thou hast sent me.
John 11:43	As hee had spoken these things, hee cried with a loude voyce, Lazarus, come foorth.
John 11:44	Then he that was dead, came forth, bound hande and foote with bandes, and his face was bound with a napkin. Iesus said vnto them, Loose him, and let him goe.
John 11:45	Then many of the Iewes, which came to Mary, and had seene the thinges, which Iesus did, beleeued in him.
John 11:46	But some of them went their way to the Pharises, and told them what things Iesus had done.
John 11:47	Then gathered the hie Priests, and the Pharises a councill, and said, What shall we doe? For this man doeth many miracles.
John 11:48	If we let him thus alone, all men will beleeue in him, and the Romanes will come and take away both our place, and the nation.
John 11:49	Then one of them named Caiaphas, which was the hie Priest that same yere, said vnto them, Ye perceiue nothing at all,
John 11:50	Nor yet doe you consider that it is expedient for vs, that one man die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not.
John 11:51	This spake hee not of himselfe: but being hie Priest that same yere, he prophecied that Iesus should die for that nation:
John 11:52	And not for that nation onely, but that he shoulde gather together in one the children of God, which were scattered.
John 11:53	Then from that day foorth they consulted together, to put him to death.
John 11:54	Iesus therefore walked no more openly among the Iewes, but went thence vnto a countrey neere to the wildernes, into a citie called Ephraim, and there continued with his disciples.
John 11:55	And the Iewes Passeouer was at hande, and many went out of the countrey vp to Hierusalem before the Passeouer, to purifie themselues.
John 11:56	Then sought they for Iesus, and spake among themselues, as they stoode in the Temple, What thinke ye, that he cometh not to the feast?
John 11:57	Now both the high Priestes and the Pharises had giuen a commandement, that if any man knew where he were, he should shew it, that they might take him.
John 12:1	Then Iesus, sixe dayes before the Passeouer, came to Bethania, where Lazarus was, who died, whom he had raised from the dead.
John 12:2	There they made him a supper, and Martha serued: but Lazarus was one of them that sate at the table with him.
John 12:3	Then tooke Mary a pound of oyntment of Spikenarde very costly, and anoynted Iesus feete, and wiped his feete with her heare, and the house was filled with the sauour of the oyntment.
John 12:4	Then said one of his disciples, euen Iudas Iscariot Simons sonne, which should betray him:
John 12:5	Why was not this oyntment sold for three hundreth pence, and giuen to the poore?
John 12:6	Nowe he said this, not that he cared for the poore, but because hee was a theefe, and had the bagge, and bare that which was giuen.
John 12:7	Then said Iesus, Let her alone: against the day of my burying she kept it.
John 12:8	For the poore alwayes yee haue with you, but me ye shall not haue alwayes.
John 12:9	Then much people of the Iewes knewe that hee was there: and they came, not for Iesus sake onely, but that they might see Lazarus also, whome he had raysed from the dead.
John 12:10	The hie Priestes therefore consulted, that they might put Lazarus to death also,
John 12:11	Because that for his sake many of the Iewes went away, and beleeued in Iesus.
John 12:12	On the morowe a great multitude that were come to the feast, when they heard that Iesus should come to Hierusalem,
John 12:13	Tooke branches of palme trees, and went foorth to meete him, and cried, Hosanna, Blessed is the King of Israel that commeth in the Name of the Lord.
John 12:14	And Iesus found a yong asse, and sate thereon, as it is written,
John 12:15	Feare not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy King commeth sitting on an asses colte.
John 12:16	But his disciples vnderstoode not these thinges at the first: but when Iesus was glorified, then remembred they, that these thinges were written of him, and that they had done these things vnto him.
John 12:17	The people therefore that was with him, bare witnesse that hee called Lazarus out of the graue, and raised him from the dead.
John 12:18	Therefore mette him the people also, because they heard that he had done this miracle.
John 12:19	And the Pharises said among themselues, Perceiue ye howe ye preuaile nothing? Beholde, the worlde goeth after him.
John 12:20	Nowe there were certaine Greekes among them that came vp to worship at the feast.
John 12:21	And they came to Philippe, which was of Bethsaida in Galile, and desired him, saying, Syr, we would see that Iesus.
John 12:22	Philippe came and tolde Andrew: and againe Andrew and Philippe tolde Iesus.
John 12:23	And Iesus answered them, saying, The houre is come, that the Sonne of man must bee glorified.
John 12:24	Verely, verely I say vnto you, Except the wheate corne fall into the grounde and die, it bideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth foorth much fruite.
John 12:25	He that loueth his life, shall lose it, and he that hateth his life in this world, shall keepe it vnto life eternall.
John 12:26	If any man serue me, let him follow me: for where I am, there shall also my seruant be: and if any man serue me, him will my Father honour.
John 12:27	Now is my soule troubled: and what shall I say? Father, saue me from this houre: but therefore came I vnto this houre.
John 12:28	Father, glorifie thy Name. Then came there a voyce from heauen, saying, I haue both glorified it, and will glorifie it againe.
John 12:29	Then saide the people that stoode by, and heard, that it was a thunder: other said, An Angel spake to him.
John 12:30	Iesus answered, and said, This voyce came not because of me, but for your sakes.
John 12:31	Now is the iudgement of this world: nowe shall the prince of this world be cast out.
John 12:32	And I, if I were lift vp from the earth, will drawe all men vnto me.
John 12:33	Nowe this sayd he, signifying what death he should die.
John 12:34	The people answered him, We haue heard out of the Law, that that Christ bideth for euer: and howe sayest thou, that that Sonne of man must be lift vp? Who is that Sonne of man?
John 12:35	Then Iesus sayd vnto them, Yet a litle while is the light with you: walke while ye haue that light, lest the darkenes come vpon you: for hee that walketh in the darke, knoweth not whither he goeth.
John 12:36	While ye haue that light, beleeue in that light, that ye may be the children of the light. These things spake Iesus, and departed, and hid himselfe from them.
John 12:37	And though he had done so many miracles before them, yet beleeued they not on him,
John 12:38	That the saying of Esaias the Prophete might be fulfilled, that he sayd, Lord, who beleeued our report? and to whome is the arme of the Lord reueiled?
John 12:39	Therefore could they not beleeue, because that Esaias saith againe,
John 12:40	He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart, that they shoulde not see with their eyes, nor vnderstand with their heart, and should be conuerted, and I should heale them.
John 12:41	These things sayd Esaias when he sawe his glory, and spake of him.
John 12:42	Neuertheles, euen among the chiefe rulers, many beleeued in him: but because of the Pharises they did not confesse him, least they should be cast out of the Synagogue.
John 12:43	For they loued the prayse of men, more then the prayse of God.
John 12:44	And Iesus cryed, and sayd, He that beleeueth in me, beleeueth not in me, but in him that sent me.
John 12:45	And he that seeth me, seeth him that sent me.
John 12:46	I am come a light into the world, that whosoeuer beleeueth in me, should not abide in darkenes.
John 12:47	And if any man heare my wordes, and beleeue not, I iudge him not: for I came not to iudge the world, but to saue the world.
John 12:48	He that refuseth me, and receiueth not my wordes, hath one that iudgeth him: the worde that I haue spoken, it shall iudge him in the last day.
John 12:49	For I haue not spoken of my selfe: but the Father which sent me, hee gaue me a commandement what I should say, and what I should speake.
John 12:50	And I knowe that his commandement is life euerlasting: the thinges therefore that I speake, I speake them so as the Father sayde vnto me.
John 13:1	Nowe before the feast of the Passeouer, when Iesus knewe that his houre was come, that he should depart out of this world vnto the Father, forasmuch as he loued his owne which were in the world, vnto the end he loued them.
John 13:2	And when supper was done (and that the deuill had now put in the heart of Iudas Iscariot, Simons sonne, to betray him)
John 13:3	Iesus knowing that the Father had giuen all things into his hands, and that he was come forth from God, and went to God,
John 13:4	He riseth from supper, and layeth aside his vpper garments, and tooke a towel, and girded himselfe.
John 13:5	After that, hee powred water into a basen, and began to wash the disciples feete, and to wipe them with the towell, wherewith he was girded.
John 13:6	Then came he to Simon Peter, who sayd to him, Lord, doest thou wash my feete?
John 13:7	Iesus answered and sayd vnto him, What I doe, thou knowest not nowe: but thou shalt knowe it hereafter.
John 13:8	Peter said vnto him, Thou shalt neuer wash my feete. Iesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou shalt haue no part with me.
John 13:9	Simon Peter sayd vnto him, Lord, not my feete onely, but also the hands and the head.
John 13:10	Iesus sayd to him, He that is washed, needeth not, saue to wash his feete, but is cleane euery whit: and ye are cleane, but not all.
John 13:11	For hee knewe who should betray him: therefore sayd he, Ye are not all cleane.
John 13:12	So after he had washed their feete, and had taken his garments, and was set downe againe, he sayd vnto them, Knowe ye what I haue done to you?
John 13:13	Ye call me Master, and Lord, and ye say well: for so am I.
John 13:14	If I then your Lord, and Master, haue washed your feete, ye also ought to wash one an others feete.
John 13:15	For I haue giuen you an example, that ye should doe, euen as I haue done to you.
John 13:16	Verely, verely I say vnto you, The seruant is not greater then his master, neither the ambassadour greater then he that sent him.
John 13:17	If ye know these things, blessed are ye, if ye doe them.
John 13:18	I speake not of you all: I know whom I haue chosen: but it is that the Scripture might be fulfilled, He that eateth bread with me, hath lift vp his heele against me.
John 13:19	From henceforth tell I you before it come, that when it is come to passe, ye might beleeue that I am he.
John 13:20	Verely, verely I say vnto you, If I send any, he that receiueth him, receiueth me, and hee that receiueth me, receiueth him that sent me.
John 13:21	When Iesus had sayd these things, he was troubled in the Spirit, and testified, and said, Verely, verely I say vnto you, that one of you shall betray me.
John 13:22	Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake.
John 13:23	Nowe there was one of his disciples, which leaned on Iesus bosome, whom Iesus loued.
John 13:24	To him beckened therefore Simon Peter, that he should aske who it was of whom he spake.
John 13:25	He then, as he leaned on Iesus breast, saide vnto him, Lord, who is it?
John 13:26	Iesus answered, He it is, to whome I shall giue a soppe, when I haue dipt it: and hee wet a soppe, and gaue it to Iudas Iscariot, Simons sonne.
John 13:27	And after the soppe, Satan entred into him. Then sayd Iesus vnto him, That thou doest, doe quickly.
John 13:28	But none of them that were at table, knew, for what cause he spake it vnto him.
John 13:29	For some of them thought because Iudas had the bag, that Iesus had sayd vnto him, Buy those things that we haue neede of against ye feast: or that he should giue some thing to the poore.
John 13:30	Assoone then as he had receiued the soppe, he went immediately out, and it was night.
John 13:31	When hee was gone out, Iesus sayd, Nowe is the Sonne of man glorified, and God is glorified in him.
John 13:32	If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorifie him in himselfe, and shall straightway glorifie him.
John 13:33	Litle children, yet a litle while am I with you: ye shall seeke me, but as I sayde vnto the Iewes, Whither I goe, can ye not come: also to you say I nowe,
John 13:34	A newe commandement giue I vnto you, that ye loue one another: as I haue loued you, that ye also loue one another.
John 13:35	By this shall all men knowe that ye are my disciples, if ye haue loue one to another.
John 13:36	Simon Peter said vnto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Iesus answered him, Whither I goe, thou canst not follow me nowe: but thou shalt follow me afterward.
John 13:37	Peter sayd vnto him, Lord, why can I not follow thee now? I will lay downe my life for thy sake.
John 13:38	Iesus answered him, Wilt thou lay downe thy life for my sake? Verely, verely I say vnto thee, The cocke shall not crowe, till thou haue denied me thrise.
John 14:1	Let not your heart be troubled: ye beleeue in God, beleeue also in me.
John 14:2	In my Fathers house are many dwelling places: if it were not so, I would haue tolde you: I go to prepare a place for you.
John 14:3	And if I go to prepare a place for you, I wil come againe, and receiue you vnto my selfe, that where I am, there may ye be also.
John 14:4	And whither I go, ye know, and the way ye knowe.
John 14:5	Thomas sayd vnto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest: how can we then know ye way?
John 14:6	Iesus sayd vnto him, I am that Way, and that Trueth, and that Life. No man commeth vnto the Father, but by me.
John 14:7	If ye had knowen mee, ye should haue knowen my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and haue seene him.
John 14:8	Philippe sayd vnto him, Lord, shewe vs thy Father, and it sufficeth vs.
John 14:9	Iesus sayd vnto him, I haue bene so long time with you, and hast thou not knowen mee, Philippe? he that hath seene me, hath seene my Father: how then sayest thou, Shewe vs thy Father?
John 14:10	Beleeuest thou not, that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me? The wordes that I speake vnto you, I speake not of my selfe: but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the workes.
John 14:11	Beleeue me, that I am in the Father, and the Father is in me: at the least, beleeue me for the very workes sake.
John 14:12	Verely, verely I say vnto you, he that beleeueth in me, the workes that I doe, hee shall doe also, and greater then these shall he doe: for I goe vnto my Father.
John 14:13	And whatsoeuer ye aske in my Name, that will I doe, that the Father may be glorified in the Sonne.
John 14:14	If ye shall aske any thing in my Name, I will doe it.
John 14:15	If ye loue me, keepe my comandements,
John 14:16	And I wil pray the Father, and he shall giue you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for euer,
John 14:17	Euen the Spirit of trueth, whome the world can not receiue, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye knowe him: for he dwelleth with you, and shalbe in you.
John 14:18	I will not leaue you fatherles: but I will come to you.
John 14:19	Yet a litle while, and the world shall see me no more, but ye shall see me: because I liue, ye shall liue also.
John 14:20	At that day shall ye knowe that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you.
John 14:21	He that hath my commandements, and keepeth them, is he that loueth me: and he that loueth me, shall be loued of my Father: and I will loue him, and wil shewe mine owne selfe to him.
John 14:22	Iudas sayd vnto him (not Iscariot) Lord, what is the cause that thou wilt shewe thy selfe vnto vs, and not vnto the world?
John 14:23	Iesus answered, and sayd vnto him, If any man loue me, he will keepe my worde, and my Father will loue him, and we wil come vnto him, and wil dwell with him.
John 14:24	He that loueth me not, keepeth not my wordes, and the worde which ye heare, is not mine, but the Fathers which sent me.
John 14:25	These things haue I spoken vnto you, being present with you.
John 14:26	But the Comforter, which is the holy Ghost, whom the Father wil send in my Name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, which I haue tolde you.
John 14:27	Peace I leaue with you: my peace I giue vnto you: not as the worlde giueth, giue I vnto you. Let not your heart be troubled, nor feare.
John 14:28	Ye haue heard howe I saide vnto you, I goe away, and will come vnto you. If ye loued me, ye would verely reioyce, because I said, I goe vnto the Father: for the Father is greater then I.
John 14:29	And nowe haue I spoken vnto you, before it come, that when it is come to passe, ye might beleeue.
John 14:30	Hereafter will I not speake many things vnto you: for the prince of this world commeth, and hath nought in me.
John 14:31	But it is that the world may knowe that I loue my Father: and as the Father hath commanded me, so I doe. Arise, let vs goe hence.
John 15:1	I Am that true vine, and my Father is that husband man.
John 15:2	Euery branch that beareth not fruite in me, he taketh away: and euery one that beareth fruite, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruite.
John 15:3	Nowe are ye cleane through the worde, which I haue spoken vnto you.
John 15:4	Abide in me, and I in you: as the branche cannot beare fruite of it selfe, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye, except ye abide in me.
John 15:5	I am that vine: ye are the branches: he that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruite: for without me can ye doe nothing.
John 15:6	If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branche, and withereth: and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they burne.
John 15:7	If ye abide in me, and my wordes abide in you, aske what ye wil, and it shalbe done to you.
John 15:8	Herein is my Father glorified, that ye beare much fruite, and be made my disciples.
John 15:9	As the father hath loued me, so haue I loued you: continue in that my loue.
John 15:10	If ye shall keepe my commandements, ye shall abide in my loue, as I haue kept my Fathers commandements, and abide in his loue.
John 15:11	These things haue I spoken vnto you, that my ioy might remaine in you, and that your ioy might be full.
John 15:12	This is my commandement, that ye loue one another, as I haue loued you.
John 15:13	Greater loue then this hath no man, when any man bestoweth his life for his friendes.
John 15:14	Ye are my friendes, if ye doe whatsoeuer I commaund you.
John 15:15	Henceforth call I you not seruants: for the seruant knoweth not what his master doeth: but I haue called you friends: for all things that I haue heard of my Father, haue I made knowen to you.
John 15:16	Ye haue not chosen me, but I haue chosen you, and ordeined you, that ye goe and bring foorth fruite, and that your fruite remaine, that whatsoeuer ye shall aske of the Father in my Name, he may giue it you.
John 15:17	These things commaund I you, that ye loue one another.
John 15:18	If the worlde hate you, ye knowe that it hated me before you.
John 15:19	If ye were of the worlde, the world woulde loue his owne: but because ye are not of ye world, but I haue chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you.
John 15:20	Remember the word that I said vnto you, The seruant is not greater then his master. If they haue persecuted me, they will persecute you also: if they haue kept my worde, they will also keepe yours.
John 15:21	But all these things will they doe vnto you for my Names sake, because they haue not knowen him that sent me.
John 15:22	If I had not come and spoken vnto them, they shoulde not haue had sinne: but nowe haue they no cloke for their sinne.
John 15:23	He that hateth me, hateth my Father also.
John 15:24	If I had not done workes among them which none other man did, they had not had sinne: but nowe haue they both seene, and haue hated both me, and my Father.
John 15:25	But it is that the worde might be fulfilled, that is written in their Lawe, They hated me without a cause.
John 15:26	But when that Comforter shall come, whom I will send vnto you from the Father, euen the Spirit of trueth, which proceedeth of the Father, he shall testifie of me.
John 15:27	And ye shall witnesse also, because ye haue bene with me from the beginning.
John 16:1	These thinges haue I saide vnto you, that ye should not be offended.
John 16:2	They shall excommunicate you: yea, the time shall come, that whosoeuer killeth you, will thinke that he doeth God seruice.
John 16:3	And these things will they doe vnto you, because they haue not knowen ye Father, nor me.
John 16:4	But these things haue I tolde you, that when the houre shall come, ye might remember, that I tolde you them. And these things said I not vnto you from ye beginning, because I was with you.
John 16:5	But now I go my way to him that sent me, and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou?
John 16:6	But because I haue saide these thinges vnto you, your hearts are full of sorowe.
John 16:7	Yet I tell you the trueth, It is expedient for you that I goe away: for if I goe not away, that Comforter will not come vnto you: but if I depart, I will send him vnto you.
John 16:8	And when he is come, he will reproue the worlde of sinne, and of righteousnesse, and of iudgement.
John 16:9	Of sinne, because they beleeued not in me:
John 16:10	Of righteousnesse, because I goe to my Father, and ye shall see me no more:
John 16:11	Of iudgement, because the prince of this world is iudged.
John 16:12	I haue yet many things to say vnto you, but ye cannot beare them nowe.
John 16:13	Howbeit, when he is come which is the Spirit of trueth, he will leade you into all trueth: for he shall not speake of himselfe, but whatsoeuer he shall heare, shall he speake, and he will shew you the things to come.
John 16:14	He shall glorifie me: for he shall receiue of mine, and shall shewe it vnto you.
John 16:15	All thinges that the Father hath, are mine: therefore said I, that he shall take of mine, and shewe it vnto you.
John 16:16	A litle while, and ye shall not see me: and againe a litle while, and ye shall see me: for I goe to the Father.
John 16:17	Then said some of his disciples among them selues, What is this that he saieth vnto vs, A litle while, and ye shall not see me, and againe, a litle while, and ye shall see me, and, For I goe to the Father.
John 16:18	They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A litle while? we know not what he sayeth.
John 16:19	Now Iesus knew that they would aske him, and said vnto them, Doe ye enquire among your selues, of that I said, A litle while, and ye shall not see me: and againe, a litle while, and yee shall see me?
John 16:20	Verely, verely I say vnto you, that ye shall weepe and lament, and the worlde shall reioyce: and ye shall sorowe, but your sorowe shalbe turned to ioye.
John 16:21	A woman when she traueileth, hath sorowe, because her houre is come: but assoone as she is deliuered of the childe, she remembreth no more the anguish, for ioy that a man is borne into the world.
John 16:22	And ye nowe therefore are in sorowe: but I will see you againe, and your hearts shall reioyce, and your ioy shall no man take from you.
John 16:23	And in that day shall ye aske me nothing. Verely, verely I say vnto you, whatsoeuer ye shall aske the Father in my Name, he will giue it you.
John 16:24	Hitherto haue ye asked nothing in my Name: aske, and ye shall receiue, that your ioye may be full.
John 16:25	These things haue I spoken vnto you in parables: but the time will come, when I shall no more speake to you in parables: but I shall shew you plainely of the Father.
John 16:26	At that day shall ye aske in my Name, and I say not vnto you, that I will pray vnto the Father for you:
John 16:27	For the Father himselfe loueth you, because ye haue loued me, and haue beleeued that I came out from God.
John 16:28	I am come out from the Father, and came into the worlde: againe I leaue the worlde, and goe to the Father.
John 16:29	His disciples saide vnto him, Loe, nowe speakest thou plainely, and thou speakest no parable.
John 16:30	Nowe knowe wee that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should aske thee. By this we beleeue, that thou art come out from God.
John 16:31	Iesus answered them, Doe you beleeue nowe?
John 16:32	Beholde, the houre commeth, and is already come, that ye shalbe scattered euery man into his owne, and shall leaue me alone: but I am not alone: for the Father is with me.
John 16:33	These thinges haue I spoken vnto you, that in me ye might haue peace: in the world ye shall haue affliction, but be of good comfort: I haue ouercome the world.
John 17:1	These things spake Iesus, and lift vp his eyes to heauen, and saide, Father, that houre is come: glorifie thy Sonne, that thy Sonne also may glorifie thee,
John 17:2	As thou hast giuen him power ouer all flesh, that he shoulde giue eternall life to all them that thou hast giuen him.
John 17:3	And this is life eternall, that they knowe thee to be the onely very God, and whom thou hast sent, Iesus Christ.
John 17:4	I haue glorified thee on the earth: I haue finished the worke which thou gauest me to doe.
John 17:5	And nowe glorifie me, thou Father, with thine owne selfe, with the glorie which I had with thee before the world was.
John 17:6	I haue declared thy Name vnto the men which thou gauest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gauest them me, and they haue kept thy worde.
John 17:7	Nowe they knowe that all things whatsoeuer thou hast giuen me, are of thee.
John 17:8	For I haue giuen vnto them the wordes which thou gauest me, and they haue receiued them, and haue knowen surely that I came out from thee, and haue beleeued that thou hast sent me.
John 17:9	I pray for them: I pray not for the worlde, but for them which thou hast giuen me: for they are thine.
John 17:10	And al mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them.
John 17:11	And nowe am I no more in the world, but these are in the worlde, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keepe them in thy Name, euen them whome thou hast giuen mee, that they may bee one, as we are.
John 17:12	While I was with them in the worlde, I kept them in thy Name: those that thou gauest me, haue I kept, and none of them is lost, but the childe of perdition, that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
John 17:13	And now come I to thee, and these things speake I in the worlde, that they might haue my ioy fulfilled in themselues.
John 17:14	I haue giuen them thy word, and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, as I am not of the world.
John 17:15	I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou keepe them from euill.
John 17:16	They are not of the worlde, as I am not of the world.
John 17:17	Sanctifie them with thy trueth: thy word is trueth.
John 17:18	As thou diddest send me into the world, so haue I sent them into the world.
John 17:19	And for their sakes sanctifie I my selfe, that they also may bee sanctified through the trueth.
John 17:20	I praie not for these alone, but for them also which shall beleeue in mee, through their woorde,
John 17:21	That they all may bee one, as thou, O Father, art in me, and I in thee: euen that they may be also one in vs, that the worlde may beleeue that thou hast sent me.
John 17:22	And the glory that thou gauest me, I haue giuen them, that they may be one, as we are one,
John 17:23	I in them, and thou in mee, that they may be made perfect in one, and that the worlde may knowe that thou hast sent mee, and hast loued them, as thou hast loued me.
John 17:24	Father, I will that they which thou hast giuen me, be with me euen where I am, that they may beholde that my glorie, which thou hast giuen mee: for thou louedst me before the foundation of the world.
John 17:25	O righteous Father, the worlde also hath not knowen thee, but I haue knowen thee, and these haue knowen, that thou hast sent me.
John 17:26	And I haue declared vnto the thy Name, and will declare it, that the loue wherewith thou hast loued me, may be in them, and I in them.
John 18:1	When Iesus had spoken these things, hee went foorth with his disciples ouer the brooke Cedron, where was a garden, into the which he entred, and his disciples.
John 18:2	And Iudas which betraied him, knewe also the place: for Iesus oft times resorted thither with his disciples.
John 18:3	Iudas then, after hee had receiued a band of men and officers of the high Priests, and of the Pharises, came thither with lanternes and torches, and weapons.
John 18:4	Then Iesus, knowing all things that shoulde come vnto him, went foorth and said vnto them, Whom seeke yee?
John 18:5	They answered him, Iesus of Nazareth. Iesus sayde vnto them, I am hee. Nowe Iudas also which betraied him, stoode with them.
John 18:6	Assoone then as hee had saide vnto them, I am hee, they went away backewardes, and fell to the grounde.
John 18:7	Then he asked them againe, Whome seeke yee? And they sayd, Iesus of Nazareth.
John 18:8	Iesus answered, I said vnto you, that I am he: therefore if ye seeke me, let these go their way.
John 18:9	This was that the worde might be fulfilled which hee spake, Of them which thou gauest me, haue I lost none.
John 18:10	Then Simon Peter hauing a sword, drewe it, and smote the hie Priests seruant, and cut off his right eare. Nowe the seruants name was Malchus.
John 18:11	Then sayde Iesus vnto Peter, Put vp thy sworde into the sheath: shall I not drinke of the cuppe which my Father hath giuen me?
John 18:12	Then the bande and the captaine, and the officers of the Iewes tooke Iesus, and bound him,
John 18:13	And led him away to Annas first (for he was father in lawe to Caiaphas, which was the hie Priest that same yeere)
John 18:14	And Caiaphas was he, that gaue counsel to the Iewes, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.
John 18:15	Nowe Simon Peter folowed Iesus, and another disciple, and that disciple was knowen of the hie Priest: therefore he went in with Iesus into the hall of the hie Priest:
John 18:16	But Peter stood at the doore without. Then went out the other disciple which was knowen vnto the hie Priest, and spake to her that kept the doore, and brought in Peter.
John 18:17	Then saide the maide that kept the doore, vnto Peter, Art not thou also one of this mans disciples? He sayd, I am not.
John 18:18	And the seruants and officers stoode there, which had made a fire of coles: for it was colde, and they warmed themselues. And Peter also stood among them, and warmed himselfe.
John 18:19	(The hie Priest then asked Iesus of his disciples, and of his doctrine.
John 18:20	Iesus answered him, I spake openly to the world: I euer taught in the Synagogue and in the Temple, whither the Iewes resort continually, and in secret haue I sayde nothing.
John 18:21	Why askest thou mee? aske them which heard mee what I sayde vnto them: beholde, they knowe what I sayd.
John 18:22	When he had spoken these thinges, one of the officers which stoode by, smote Iesus with his rod, saying, Answerest thou the hie Priest so?
John 18:23	Iesus answered him, If I haue euill spoken, beare witnes of the euil: but if I haue well spoken, why smitest thou me?
John 18:24	Nowe Annas had sent him bound vnto Caiaphas the hie Priest)
John 18:25	And Simon Peter stoode and warmed himselfe, and they said vnto him, Art not thou also of his disciples? He denied it, and said, I am not.
John 18:26	One of the seruaunts of the hie Priest, his cousin whose eare Peter smote off, saide, Did not I see thee in the garden with him?
John 18:27	Peter then denied againe, and immediatly the cocke crewe.
John 18:28	Then led they Iesus from Caiaphas into the common hall. Nowe it was morning, and they themselues went not into the common hall, least they should be defiled, but that they might eate the Passeouer.
John 18:29	Pilate then went out vnto them, and said, What accusation bring yee against this man?
John 18:30	They answered, and saide vnto him, If hee were not an euill doer, we woulde not haue deliuered him vnto thee.
John 18:31	Then sayde Pilate vnto them, Take yee him, and iudge him after your owne Lawe. Then the Iewes sayde vnto him, It is not lawfull for vs to put any man to death.
John 18:32	It was that the worde of Iesus might be fulfilled which he spake, signifying what death he should die.
John 18:33	So Pilate entred into the common hall againe, and called Iesus, and sayde vnto him, Art thou the king of the Iewes?
John 18:34	Iesus answered him, Saiest thou that of thy selfe, or did other tell it thee of me?
John 18:35	Pilate answered, Am I a Iewe? Thine owne nation, and the hie Priestes haue deliuered thee vnto me. What hast thou done?
John 18:36	Iesus answered, My kingdome is not of this worlde: if my kingdome were of this worlde, my seruants would surely fight, that I should not be deliuered to the Iewes: but nowe is my kingdome not from hence.
John 18:37	Pilate then said vnto him, Art thou a King then? Iesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a King: for this cause am I borne, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should beare witnes vnto the trueth: euery one that is of the trueth, heareth my voyce.
John 18:38	Pilate said vnto him, What is trueth? And when he had saide that, hee went out againe vnto the Iewes, and said vnto them, I finde in him no cause at all.
John 18:39	But you haue a custome, that I shoulde deliuer you one loose at the Passeouer: will yee then that I loose vnto you the King of ye Iewes?
John 18:40	Then cried they all againe, saying, Not him, but Barabbas: nowe this Barabbas was a murtherer.
John 19:1	Then Pilate tooke Iesus and scourged him.
John 19:2	And the souldiers platted a crowne of thornes, and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple garment,
John 19:3	And saide, Haile, King of the Iewes. And they smote him with their roddes.
John 19:4	Then Pilate went foorth againe, and said vnto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you, that ye may knowe, that I finde no fault in him at all.
John 19:5	Then came Iesus foorth wearing a crowne of thornes, and a purple garment. And Pilate said vnto them, Beholde the man.
John 19:6	Then when the hie Priests and officers sawe him, they cried, saying, Crucifie, crucifie him. Pilate said vnto them, Take yee him and crucifie him: for I finde no fault in him.
John 19:7	The Iewes answered him, We haue a lawe, and by our law he ought to die, because he made himselfe the Sonne of God.
John 19:8	When Pilate then heard that woorde, he was the more afraide,
John 19:9	And went againe into the common hall, and saide vnto Iesus, Whence art thou? But Iesus gaue him none answere.
John 19:10	Then saide Pilate vnto him, Speakest thou not vnto me? Knowest thou not that I haue power to crucifie thee, and haue power to loose thee?
John 19:11	Iesus answered, Thou couldest haue no power at all against me, except it were giuen thee from aboue: therefore he that deliuered me vnto thee, hath the greater sinne.
John 19:12	From thence foorth Pilate sought to loose him, but the Iewes cried, saying, If thou deliuer him, thou art not Cesars friende: for whosoeuer maketh himselfe a King, speaketh against Cesar.
John 19:13	When Pilate heard this woorde, hee brought Iesus foorth, and sate downe in the iudgement seate in a place called the Pauement, and in Hebrewe, Gabbatha.
John 19:14	And it was the Preparation of the Passeouer, and about the sixt houre: and hee sayde vnto the Iewes, Beholde your King.
John 19:15	But they cried, Away with him, away with him, crucifie him. Pilate sayde vnto them, Shall I crucifie your King? The high Priestes answered, We haue no King but Cesar.
John 19:16	Then deliuered he him vnto them, to be crucified. And they tooke Iesus, and led him away.
John 19:17	And he bare his owne crosse, and came into a place named of dead mens Skulles, which is called in Hebrewe, Golgotha:
John 19:18	Where they crucified him, and two other with him, on either side one, and Iesus in the middes.
John 19:19	And Pilate wrote also a title, and put it on the crosse, and it was written, JESUS OF NAZARETH THE KING OF THE JEWES.
John 19:20	This title then read many of the Iewes: for the place where Iesus was crucified, was neere to the citie: and it was written in Hebrewe, Greeke and Latine.
John 19:21	Then saide the hie Priests of the Iewes to Pilate, Write not, The King of the Iewes, but that he sayd, I am King of the Iewes.
John 19:22	Pilate answered, What I haue written, I haue written.
John 19:23	Then the souldiers, when they had crucified Iesus, tooke his garments (and made foure partes, to euery souldier a part) and his coat: and the coat was without seame wouen from the toppe throughout.
John 19:24	Therefore they sayde one to another, Let vs not deuide it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be. This was that the Scripture might be fulfilled, which sayth, They parted my garments among them, and on my coate did cast lots. So the souldiers did these things in deede.
John 19:25	Then stoode by the crosse of Iesus his mother, and his mothers sister, Marie the wife of Cleopas, and Marie Magdalene.
John 19:26	And when Iesus sawe his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loued, he said vnto his mother, Woman, beholde thy sonne.
John 19:27	Then saide he to the disciple, Beholde thy mother: and from that houre, the disciple tooke her home vnto him.
John 19:28	After, when Iesus knew that all things were performed, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, he said, I thirst.
John 19:29	And there was set a vessell full of vineger: and they filled a spondge with vineger: and put it about an Hyssope stalke, and put it to his mouth.
John 19:30	Nowe when Iesus had receiued of the vineger, he saide, It is finished, and bowed his head, and gaue vp the ghost.
John 19:31	The Iewes then (because it was the Preparation, that the bodies should not remaine vpon the crosse on the Sabbath day: for that Sabbath was an hie day) besought Pilate that their legges might be broken, and that they might be taken downe.
John 19:32	Then came the souldiers and brake the legges of the first, and of the other, which was crucified with Iesus.
John 19:33	But when they came to Iesus, and saw that he was dead alreadie, they brake not his legges.
John 19:34	But one of the souldiers with a speare pearced his side, and foorthwith came there out blood and water.
John 19:35	And he that sawe it, bare recorde, and his record is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might beleeue it.
John 19:36	For these things were done, that the Scripture shoulde be fulfilled, Not a bone of him shalbe broken.
John 19:37	And againe an other Scripture saith, They shall see him whom they haue thrust through.
John 19:38	And after these things, Ioseph of Arimathea (who was a disciple of Iesus, but secretly for feare of the Iewes) besought Pilate that he might take downe the bodie of Iesus. And Pilate gaue him licence. He came then and tooke Iesus body.
John 19:39	And there came also Nicodemus (which first came to Iesus by night) and brought of myrrhe and aloes mingled together about an hundreth pound.
John 19:40	Then tooke they the body of Iesus, and wrapped it in linnen clothes with the odours, as the maner of the Iewes is to burie.
John 19:41	And in that place where Iesus was crucified, was a garden, and in the garden a newe sepulchre, wherein was neuer man yet laid.
John 19:42	There then laide they Iesus, because of the Iewes Preparation day, for the sepulchre was neere.
John 20:1	Nowe the first day of the weeke came Marie Magdalene, early when it was yet darke, vnto the sepulchre, and sawe the stone taken away from the tombe.
John 20:2	Then she ranne, and came to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple whom Iesus loued, and saide vnto them, They haue taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we knowe not where they haue laid him.
John 20:3	Peter therefore went forth, and the other disciple, and they came vnto the sepulchre.
John 20:4	So they ranne both together, but the other disciple did outrunne Peter, and came first to the sepulchre.
John 20:5	And he stouped downe, and sawe the linnen clothes lying: yet went he not in.
John 20:6	Then came Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and sawe the linnen clothes lye,
John 20:7	And the kerchiefe that was vpon his head, not lying with the linnen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by it selfe.
John 20:8	Then went in also the other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he sawe it, and beleeued.
John 20:9	For as yet they knewe not the Scripture, That he must rise againe from the dead.
John 20:10	And the disciples went away againe vnto their owne home.
John 20:11	But Marie stoode without at the sepulchre weeping: and as she wept, she bowed her selfe into the sepulchre,
John 20:12	And sawe two Angels in white, sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feete, where the body of Iesus had laien.
John 20:13	And they said vnto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She said vnto them, They haue taken away my Lord, and I know not where they haue laide him.
John 20:14	When she had thus said, she turned her selfe backe, and sawe Iesus standing, and knewe not that it was Iesus.
John 20:15	Iesus saith vnto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She supposing that he had bene the gardener, said vnto him, Sir, if thou hast borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away.
John 20:16	Iesus saith vnto her, Marie. She turned her selfe, and said vnto him, Rabboni, which is to say, Master.
John 20:17	Iesus saith vnto her, Touch me not: for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but goe to my brethren, and say vnto them, I ascend vnto my Father, and to your Father, and to my God, and your God.
John 20:18	Marie Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seene the Lord, and that he had spoken these things vnto her.
John 20:19	The same day then at night, which was the first day of the weeke, and when the doores were shut where the disciples were assembled for feare of the Iewes, came Iesus and stoode in the middes, and saide to them, Peace be vnto you.
John 20:20	And when he had so saide, he shewed vnto them his handes, and his side. Then were the disciples glad when they had seene the Lord.
John 20:21	Then saide Iesus to them againe, Peace be vnto you: as my Father sent me, so sende I you.
John 20:22	And when he had saide that, he breathed on them, and saide vnto them, Receiue the holy Ghost.
John 20:23	Whosoeuers sinnes ye remit, they are remitted vnto them: and whosoeuers sinnes ye reteine, they are reteined.
John 20:24	But Thomas one of the twelue, called Didymus, was not with them when Iesus came.
John 20:25	The other disciples therefore saide vnto him, We haue seene the Lord: but he said vnto them, Except I see in his handes the print of the nailes, and put my finger into the print of the nailes, and put mine hand into his side, I will not beleeue it.
John 20:26	And eight dayes after, againe his disciples were within, and Thomas with them. Then came Iesus, when the doores were shut, and stood in the middes, and said, Peace be vnto you.
John 20:27	After saide he to Thomas, Put thy finger here, and see mine hands, and put forth thine hand, and put it into my side, and be not faithlesse, but faithfull.
John 20:28	Then Thomas answered, and said vnto him, Thou art my Lord, and my God.
John 20:29	Iesus said vnto him, Thomas, because thou hast seene me, thou beleeuest: blessed are they that haue not seene, and haue beleeued.
John 20:30	And many other signes also did Iesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this booke.
John 20:31	But these things are written, that ye might beleeue, that Iesus is that Christ that Sonne of God, and that in beleeuing ye might haue life through his Name.
John 21:1	After these things, Iesus shewed himselfe againe to his disciples at the sea of Tiberias: and thus shewed he himselfe:
John 21:2	There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas, which is called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galile, and the sonnes of Zebedeus, and two other of his disciples.
John 21:3	Simon Peter said vnto them, I go a fishing. They said vnto him, We also will goe with thee. They went their way and entred into a ship straightway, and that night caught they nothing.
John 21:4	But when the morning was nowe come, Iesus stoode on the shore: neuerthelesse the disciples knewe not that it was Iesus.
John 21:5	Iesus then said vnto them, Syrs, haue ye any meate? They answered him, No.
John 21:6	Then he said vnto them, Cast out the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall finde. So they cast out, and they were not able at all to draw it, for the multitude of fishes.
John 21:7	Therefore said the disciple whom Iesus loued, vnto Peter, It is the Lord. When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girded his coate to him (for he was naked) and cast himselfe into the sea.
John 21:8	But the other disciples came by shippe (for they were not farre from land, but about two hundreth cubites) and they drewe the net with fishes.
John 21:9	Assoone then as they were come to land, they sawe hoate coales, and fish laide thereon, and bread.
John 21:10	Iesus saide vnto them, Bring of the fishes, which ye haue nowe caught.
John 21:11	Simon Peter stepped foorth and drewe the net to land, full of great fishes, an hundreth, fiftie and three: and albeit there were so many, yet was not the net broken.
John 21:12	Iesus saide vnto them, Come, and dine. And none of the disciples durst aske him, Who art thou? seeing they knewe that he was the Lord.
John 21:13	Iesus then came and tooke bread, and gaue them, and fish likewise.
John 21:14	This is now the third time that Iesus shewed himselfe to his disciples, after that he was risen againe from the dead.
John 21:15	So when they had dined, Iesus said to Simon Peter, Simon the sonne of Iona, louest thou me more then these? He said vnto him, Yea Lord, thou knowest that I loue thee. He said vnto him, Feede my lambes.
John 21:16	He said to him againe the second time, Simon the sonne of Iona, louest thou me? He said vnto him, Yea Lord, thou knowest that I loue thee. He said vnto him, Feede my sheepe.
John 21:17	He said vnto him the third time, Simon the sonne of Iona, louest thou me? Peter was sorie because he said to him the third time, Louest thou me? and said vnto him, Lord, thou knowest all things: thou knowest that I loue thee. Iesus saide vnto him, Feede my sheepe.
John 21:18	Verely, verely I say vnto thee, When thou wast yong, thou girdedst thy selfe, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but when thou shalt be olde, thou shalt stretch foorth thine hands, and another shall gird thee, and lead thee whither thou wouldest not.
John 21:19	And this spake he signifying by what death he shoulde glorifie God. And when he had said this, he said to him, Folowe me.
John 21:20	Then Peter turned about, and sawe the disciple whom JESUS loued, folowing, which had also leaned on his breast at supper, and had saide, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee?
John 21:21	When Peter therefore sawe him, he saide to Iesus, Lord, what shall this man doe?
John 21:22	Iesus said vnto him, If I will that he tarie till I come, what is it to thee? follow thou me.
John 21:23	Then went this worde abroade among the brethren, that this disciple shoulde not die. Yet Iesus saide not to him, He shall not die: but if I will that he tarie till I come, what is it to thee?
John 21:24	This is that disciple, which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things, and we know that his testimonie is true.
John 21:25	Nowe there are also many other things which Iesus did, the which if they should be written euery one, I suppose the world coulde not conteine the bookes that shoulde be written, Amen.

===== BOOK: Job =====
Job 1:1	There was a man in the lande of Vz called Iob, and this man was an vpright and iust man, one that feared God, and eschewed euill.
Job 1:2	And he had seue sonnes, and three daughters.
Job 1:3	His substance also was seuen thousande sheepe, and three thousand camels, and fiue hundreth yoke of oxen, and fiue hundreth shee asses, and his family was very great, so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East.
Job 1:4	And his sonnes went and banketted in their houses, euery one his day, and sent, and called their three sisters to eate and to drinke with them.
Job 1:5	And when the dayes of their banketting were gone about, Iob sent, and sanctified them, and rose vp early in the morning, and offred burnt offrings according to the nomber of them all. For Iob thought, It may be that my sonnes haue sinned, and blasphemed God in their hearts: thus did Iob euery day.
Job 1:6	Nowe on a day when the children of God came and stoode before the Lord, Satan came also among them.
Job 1:7	Then the Lord sayde vnto Satan, Whence commest thou? And Satan answered the Lord, saying, From compassing the earth to and from, and from walking in it.
Job 1:8	And the Lord saide vnto Satan, Hast thou not considered my seruant Iob, how none is like him in the earth? an vpright and iust man, one that feareth God, and escheweth euill?
Job 1:9	Then Satan answered the Lord, and sayde, Doeth Iob feare God for nought?
Job 1:10	Hast thou not made an hedge about him and about his house, and about all that he hath on euery side? thou hast blessed the worke of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land.
Job 1:11	But stretch out now thine hand and touch all that he hath, to see if he will not blaspheme thee to thy face.
Job 1:12	Then the Lord sayde vnto Satan, Lo, all that he hath is in thine hand: onely vpon himselfe shalt thou not stretch out thine hand. So Satan departed from the presence of the Lord.
Job 1:13	And on a day, when his sonnes and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brothers house,
Job 1:14	There came a messenger vnto Iob, and said, The oxen were plowing, and the asses feeding in their places,
Job 1:15	And the Shabeans came violently, and tooke them: yea, they haue slayne the seruants with the edge of the sworde: but I onely am escaped alone to tell thee.
Job 1:16	And whiles he was yet speaking, another came, and sayde, The fire of God is fallen from the heauen, and hath burnt vp the sheepe and the seruants, and deuoured them: but I onely am escaped alone to tell thee.
Job 1:17	And whiles he was yet speaking, another came, and sayd, The Caldeans set on three bands, and fell vpon the camels, and haue taken them, and haue slayne the seruantes with the edge of the sworde: but I onely am escaped alone to tell thee.
Job 1:18	And whiles he was yet speaking, came an other, and sayd, Thy sonnes, and thy daughters were eating, and drinking wine in their eldest brothers house,
Job 1:19	And behold, there came a great wind from beyonde the wildernesse, and smote the foure corners of the house, which fel vpon the children, and they are dead, and I onely am escaped alone to tell thee.
Job 1:20	Then Iob arose, and rent his garment, and shaued his head, and fel downe vpon the ground, and worshipped,
Job 1:21	And sayd, Naked came I out of my mothers wombe, and naked shall I returne thither: the Lord hath giuen, and the Lord hath taken it: blessed be the Name of the Lord.
Job 1:22	In all this did not Iob sinne, nor charge God foolishly.
Job 2:1	And on a day the children of God came and stood before the Lord, and Satan came also among them, and stoode before the Lord.
Job 2:2	Then the Lord sayde vnto Satan, Whence commest thou? And Satan answered the Lord, and sayd, From compassing the earth to and from, and from walking in it.
Job 2:3	And the Lord sayd vnto Satan, Hast thou not considered my seruant Iob, how none is like him in the earth? an vpright and iust man, one that feareth God, and escheweth euill? for yet he continueth in his vprightnesse, although thou mouedst me against him, to destroy him without cause.
Job 2:4	And Satan answered the Lord, and sayde, Skin for skin, and all that euer a man hath, will he giue for his life.
Job 2:5	But stretch now out thine hand, and touch his bones and his flesh, to see if he will not blaspheme thee to thy face.
Job 2:6	Then the Lord said vnto Satan, Lo, he is in thine hand, but saue his life.
Job 2:7	So Satan departed from the presence of the Lord, and smote Iob with sore boyles, from the sole of his foote vnto his crowne.
Job 2:8	And he tooke a potsharde to scrape him, and he sate downe among the ashes.
Job 2:9	Then said his wife vnto him, Doest thou continue yet in thine vprightnes? Blaspheme God, and dye.
Job 2:10	But he said vnto her, Thou speakest like a foolish woman: what? shall we receiue good at the hande of God, and not receiue euill? In all this did not Iob sinne with his lippes.
Job 2:11	Nowe when Iobs three friends heard of all this euill that was come vpon him, they came euery one from his owne place, to wit, Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite: for they were agreed together to come to lament with him, and to comfort him.
Job 2:12	So when they lift vp their eyes a farre off, they knewe him not: therefore they lift vp their voyces and wept, and euery one of them rent his garment, and sprinkled dust vpon their heads toward the heauen.
Job 2:13	So they sate by him vpon the ground seuen dayes, and seuen nights, and none spake a worde vnto him: for they sawe, that the griefe was very great.
Job 3:1	Afterward Iob opened his mouth, and cursed his day.
Job 3:2	And Iob cryed out, and sayd,
Job 3:3	Let the day perish, wherein I was borne, and the night when it was sayde, There is a man childe conceiued.
Job 3:4	Let that day bee darkenesse, let not God regarde it from aboue, neyther let the light shine vpon it,
Job 3:5	But let darkenesse, and the shadowe of death staine it: let the cloude remayne vpon it, and let them make it fearefull as a bitter day.
Job 3:6	Let darkenesse possesse that night, let it not be ioyned vnto the dayes of the yeere, nor let it come into the count of the moneths.
Job 3:7	Yea, desolate be that night, and let no ioy be in it.
Job 3:8	Let them that curse the day, (being readie to renue their mourning) curse it.
Job 3:9	Let the starres of that twilight be dimme through darkenesse of it: let it looke for light, but haue none: neither let it see the dawning of the day,
Job 3:10	Because it shut not vp the dores of my mothers wombe: nor hid sorowe from mine eyes.
Job 3:11	Why died I not in the birth? or why dyed I not, when I came out of the wombe?
Job 3:12	Why did the knees preuent me? and why did I sucke the breasts?
Job 3:13	For so shoulde I now haue lyen and bene quiet, I should haue slept then, and bene at rest,
Job 3:14	With the Kings and counselers of the earth, which haue buylded themselues desolate places:
Job 3:15	Or with the princes that had golde, and haue filled their houses with siluer.
Job 3:16	Or why was I not hid, as an vntimely birth, either as infants, which haue not seene the light?
Job 3:17	The wicked haue there ceased from their tyrannie, and there they that laboured valiantly, are at rest.
Job 3:18	The prisoners rest together, and heare not the voyce of the oppressour.
Job 3:19	There are small and great, and the seruant is free from his master.
Job 3:20	Wherefore is the light giuen to him that is in miserie? and life vnto them that haue heauie hearts?
Job 3:21	Which long for death, and if it come not, they would euen search it more then treasures:
Job 3:22	Which ioy for gladnes, and reioyce, when they can finde the graue.
Job 3:23	Why is the light giuen to the man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in?
Job 3:24	For my sighing commeth before I eate, and my roarings are powred out like the water.
Job 3:25	For the thing I feared, is come vpon me, and the thing that I was afraid of, is come vnto me.
Job 3:26	I had no peace, neither had I quietnesse, neither had I rest, yet trouble is come.
Job 4:1	Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered, and sayde,
Job 4:2	If we assay to commune with thee, wilt thou be grieued? but who can withholde himselfe from speaking?
Job 4:3	Behold, thou hast taught many, and hast strengthened the wearie hands.
Job 4:4	Thy wordes haue confirmed him that was falling, and thou hast strengthened the weake knees.
Job 4:5	But now it is come vpon thee, and thou art grieued: it toucheth thee, and thou art troubled.
Job 4:6	Is not this thy feare, thy confidence, thy pacience, and the vprightnesse of thy wayes?
Job 4:7	Remember, I pray thee: who euer perished, being an innocent? or where were the vpright destroyed?
Job 4:8	As I haue seene, they that plow iniquitie, and sowe wickednesse, reape the same.
Job 4:9	With the blast of God they perish, and with the breath of his nostrels are they cosumed.
Job 4:10	The roaring of the Lion, and the voyce of the Lionesse, and the teeth of the Lions whelpes are broken.
Job 4:11	The Lyon perisheth for lacke of pray, and the Lyons whelpes are scattered abroade.
Job 4:12	But a thing was brought to me secretly, and mine eare hath receiued a litle thereof.
Job 4:13	In the thoughtes of ye visions of the night, when sleepe falleth on men,
Job 4:14	Feare came vpon me, and dread which made all my bones to tremble.
Job 4:15	And the wind passed before me, and made the heares of my flesh to stande vp.
Job 4:16	Then stoode one, and I knewe not his face: an image was before mine eyes, and in silence heard I a voyce, saying,
Job 4:17	Shall man be more iust then God? or shall a man be more pure then his maker?
Job 4:18	Beholde, he founde no stedfastnesse in his Seruants, and laid follie vpon his Angels.
Job 4:19	Howe much more in them that dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust, which shalbe destroyed before the moth?
Job 4:20	They be destroyed from the morning vnto the euening: they perish for euer, without regarde.
Job 4:21	Doeth not their dignitie goe away with them? do they not die, and that without wisdom?
Job 5:1	Call nowe, if any will answere thee, and to which of the Saintes wilt thou turne?
Job 5:2	Doubtlesse anger killeth the foolish, and enuie slayeth the idiote.
Job 5:3	I haue seene the foolish well rooted, and suddenly I cursed his habitation, saying,
Job 5:4	His children shalbe farre from saluation, and they shall be destroyed in the gate, and none shall deliuer them.
Job 5:5	The hungrie shall eate vp his haruest: yea, they shall take it from among the thornes, and the thirstie shall drinke vp their substance.
Job 5:6	For miserie commeth not foorth of the dust, neither doeth affliction spring out of the earth.
Job 5:7	But man is borne vnto trauaile, as the sparkes flie vpwarde.
Job 5:8	But I would inquire at God, and turne my talke vnto God:
Job 5:9	Which doeth great things and vnsearchable, and marueilous things without nomber.
Job 5:10	He giueth raine vpon the earth, and powreth water vpon the streetes,
Job 5:11	And setteth vp on hie them that be lowe, that the sorowfull may be exalted to saluation.
Job 5:12	He scattereth the deuices of the craftie: so that their handes can not accomplish that which they doe enterprise.
Job 5:13	He taketh the wise in their craftinesse, and the counsel of the wicked is made foolish.
Job 5:14	They meete with darkenesse in the day time, and grope at noone day, as in the night.
Job 5:15	But he saueth the poore from the sword, from their mouth, and from the hande of the violent man,
Job 5:16	So that the poore hath his hope, but iniquitie shall stop her mouth.
Job 5:17	Beholde, blessed is the man whome God correcteth: therefore refuse not thou the chastising of the Almightie.
Job 5:18	For he maketh the wound, and bindeth it vp: he smiteth, and his handes make whole.
Job 5:19	He shall deliuer thee in sixe troubles, and in the seuenth the euill shall not touch thee.
Job 5:20	In famine he shall deliuer thee from death: and in battel from the power of the sworde.
Job 5:21	Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue, and thou shalt not be afraid of destruction when it commeth.
Job 5:22	But thou shalt laugh at destruction and dearth, and shalt not be afraide of the beast of the earth.
Job 5:23	For the stones of the fielde shall be in league with thee, and the beastes of the field shall be at peace with thee.
Job 5:24	And thou shalt knowe, that peace shall be in thy tabernacle, and thou shalt visite thine habitation, and shalt not sinne.
Job 5:25	Thou shalt perceiue also, that thy seede shalbe great, and thy posteritie as the grasse of the earth.
Job 5:26	Thou shalt goe to thy graue in a ful age, as a ricke of corne commeth in due season into the barne.
Job 5:27	Lo, thus haue we inquired of it, and so it is: heare this and knowe it for thy selfe.
Job 6:1	Bvt Iob answered, and said,
Job 6:2	Oh that my griefe were well weighed, and my miseries were layed together in the balance.
Job 6:3	For it woulde be nowe heauier then the sande of the sea: therefore my wordes are swallowed vp.
Job 6:4	For the arrowes of the Almightie are in me, the venime whereof doeth drinke vp my spirit, and the terrours of God fight against me.
Job 6:5	Doeth the wilde asse bray when he hath grasse? or loweth the oxe when he hath fodder?
Job 6:6	That which is vnsauerie, shall it be eaten without salt? or is there any taste in the white of an egge?
Job 6:7	Such things as my soule refused to touch, as were sorowes, are my meate.
Job 6:8	Oh that I might haue my desire, and that God would grant me the thing that I long for!
Job 6:9	That is, that God would destroy me: that he would let his hand go, and cut me off.
Job 6:10	Then should I yet haue comfort, (though I burne with sorowe, let him not spare) because I haue not denyed the wordes of the Holy one.
Job 6:11	What power haue I that I should endure? or what is mine end, if I should prolong my life?
Job 6:12	Is my strength the strength of stones? or is my flesh of brasse?
Job 6:13	Is it not so, that there is in me no helpe? and that strength is taken from me?
Job 6:14	He that is in miserie, ought to be comforted of his neighbour: but men haue forsaken the feare of the Almightie.
Job 6:15	My brethre haue deceiued me as a brook, and as the rising of the riuers they passe away.
Job 6:16	Which are blackish with yee, and wherein the snowe is hid.
Job 6:17	But in time they are dryed vp with heate and are consumed: and when it is hote they faile out of their places,
Job 6:18	Or they depart from their way and course, yea, they vanish and perish.
Job 6:19	They that go to Tema, considered them, and they that goe to Sheba, waited for them.
Job 6:20	But they were confounded: when they hoped, they came thither and were ashamed.
Job 6:21	Surely nowe are ye like vnto it: ye haue seene my fearefull plague, and are afraide.
Job 6:22	Was it because I said, Bring vnto me? or giue a rewarde to me of your substance?
Job 6:23	And deliuer me from the enemies hande, or ransome me out of the hand of tyrants?
Job 6:24	Teach me, and I wil hold my tongue: and cause me to vnderstande, wherein I haue erred.
Job 6:25	Howe stedfast are the wordes of righteousnes? and what can any of you iustly reproue?
Job 6:26	Doe ye imagine to reproue wordes, that the talke of the afflicted should be as the winde?
Job 6:27	Ye make your wrath to fall vpon the fatherlesse, and dig a pit for your friende.
Job 6:28	Nowe therefore be content to looke vpon me: for I will not lie before your face.
Job 6:29	Turne, I pray you, let there be none iniquitie: returne, I say, and ye shall see yet my righteousnesse in that behalfe. Is there iniquitie in my tongue? doeth not my mouth feele sorowes?
Job 7:1	Is there not an appointed time to man vpon earth? and are not his dayes as the dayes of an hyreling?
Job 7:2	As a seruant longeth for the shadowe, and as an hyreling looketh for the ende of his worke,
Job 7:3	So haue I had as an inheritance the moneths of vanitie, and painefull nights haue bene appointed vnto me.
Job 7:4	If I layed me downe, I sayde, When shall I arise? and measuring the euening I am euen full with tossing to and from vnto the dawning of the day.
Job 7:5	My flesh is clothed with wormes and filthinesse of the dust: my skinne is rent, and become horrible.
Job 7:6	My dayes are swifter then a weauers shittle, and they are spent without hope.
Job 7:7	Remember that my life is but a wind, and that mine eye shall not returne to see pleasure.
Job 7:8	The eye that hath seene me, shall see me no more: thine eyes are vpon me, and I shall be no longer.
Job 7:9	As the cloude vanisheth and goeth away, so he that goeth downe to the graue, shall come vp no more.
Job 7:10	He shall returne no more to his house, neither shall his place knowe him any more.
Job 7:11	Therefore I will not spare my mouth, but will speake in the trouble of my spirite, and muse in the bitternesse of my minde.
Job 7:12	Am I a sea or a whalefish, that thou keepest me in warde?
Job 7:13	When I say, My couch shall relieue me, and my bed shall bring comfort in my meditation,
Job 7:14	Then fearest thou me with dreames, and astonishest me with visions.
Job 7:15	Therefore my soule chuseth rather to be strangled and to die, then to be in my bones.
Job 7:16	I abhorre it, I shall not liue alway: spare me then, for my dayes are but vanitie.
Job 7:17	What is man, that thou doest magnifie him, and that thou settest thine heart vpon him?
Job 7:18	And doest visite him euery morning, and tryest him euery moment?
Job 7:19	Howe long will it be yer thou depart from me? thou wilt not let me alone whiles I may swallowe my spettle.
Job 7:20	I haue sinned, what shall I do vnto thee? O thou preseruer of me, why hast thou set me as a marke against thee, so that I am a burden vnto my selfe?
Job 7:21	And why doest thou not pardon my trespasse? and take away mine iniquitie? for nowe shall I sleepe in the dust, and if thou seekest me in the morning, I shall not be found.
Job 8:1	Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and saide,
Job 8:2	Howe long wilt thou talke of these things? and howe long shall the wordes of thy mouth be as a mightie winde?
Job 8:3	Doeth God peruert iudgement? or doeth the Almightie subuert iustice?
Job 8:4	If thy sonnes haue sinned against him, and he hath sent them into the place of their iniquitie,
Job 8:5	Yet if thou wilt early seeke vnto God, and pray to the Almightie,
Job 8:6	If thou be pure and vpright, then surely hee will awake vp vnto thee, and he wil make the habitation of thy righteousnesse prosperous.
Job 8:7	And though thy beginning be small, yet thy latter ende shall greatly encrease.
Job 8:8	Inquire therefore, I pray thee, of the former age, and prepare thy selfe to search of their fathers.
Job 8:9	(For we are but of yesterday, and are ignorant: for our dayes vpon earth are but a shadowe)
Job 8:10	Shall not they teach thee and tell thee, and vtter the wordes of their heart?
Job 8:11	Can a rush grow without myre? or can ye grasse growe without water?
Job 8:12	Though it were in greene and not cutte downe, yet shall it wither before any other herbe.
Job 8:13	So are the paths of al that forget God, and the hypocrites hope shall perish.
Job 8:14	His confidence also shalbe cut off, and his trust shalbe as the house of a spyder.
Job 8:15	He shall leane vpon his house, but it shall not stand: he shall holde him fast by it, yet shall it not endure.
Job 8:16	The tree is greene before the sunne, and the branches spread ouer the garden thereof.
Job 8:17	The rootes thereof are wrapped about the fountaine, and are folden about ye house of stones.
Job 8:18	If any plucke it from his place, and it denie, saying, I haue not seene thee,
Job 8:19	Beholde, it will reioyce by this meanes, that it may growe in another molde.
Job 8:20	Behold, God will not cast away an vpright man, neither will he take the wicked by the hand,
Job 8:21	Till he haue filled thy mouth with laughter, and thy lippes with ioy.
Job 8:22	They that hate thee, shall be clothed with shame, and the dwelling of the wicked shall not remaine.
Job 9:1	Then Iob answered, and sayd,
Job 9:2	I knowe verily that it is so: for howe should man compared vnto God, be iustified?
Job 9:3	If I would dispute with him, hee could not answere him one thing of a thousand.
Job 9:4	He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath bene fierce against him and hath prospered?
Job 9:5	He remoueth the mountaines, and they feele not when he ouerthroweth them in his wrath.
Job 9:6	Hee remooueth the earth out of her place, that the pillars thereof doe shake.
Job 9:7	He commandeth the sunne, and it riseth not: hee closeth vp the starres, as vnder a signet.
Job 9:8	Hee himselfe alone spreadeth out the heauens, and walketh vpon the height of the sea.
Job 9:9	He maketh the starres Arcturus, Orion, and Pleiades, and the climates of the South.
Job 9:10	He doeth great things, and vnsearcheable: yea, marueilous things without nomber.
Job 9:11	Lo, when he goeth by me, I see him not: and when he passeth by, I perceiue him not.
Job 9:12	Behold, when he taketh a pray, who can make him to restore it? who shall say vnto him, What doest thou?
Job 9:13	God will not withdrawe his anger, and the most mightie helpes doe stoupe vnder him.
Job 9:14	Howe much lesse shall I answere him? or howe should I finde out my words with him?
Job 9:15	For though I were iust, yet could I not answere, but I would make supplication to my Iudge.
Job 9:16	If I cry, and he answere me, yet woulde I not beleeue, that he heard my voyce.
Job 9:17	For he destroyeth mee with a tempest, and woundeth me without cause.
Job 9:18	He wil not suffer me to take my breath, but filleth me with bitternesse.
Job 9:19	If we speake of strength, behold, he is strog: if we speake of iudgement, who shall bring me in to pleade?
Job 9:20	If I woulde iustifie my selfe, mine owne mouth shall condemne mee: if I would be perfite, he shall iudge me wicked.
Job 9:21	Though I were perfite, yet I knowe not my soule: therefore abhorre I my life.
Job 9:22	This is one point: therefore I said, Hee destroyeth the perfite and the wicked.
Job 9:23	If the scourge should suddenly slay, should God laugh at the punishment of the innocent?
Job 9:24	The earth is giuen into the hand of ye wicked: he couereth the faces of the iudges therof: if not, where is he? or who is he?
Job 9:25	My dayes haue bene more swift then a post: they haue fled, and haue seene no good thing.
Job 9:26	They are passed as with the most swift ships, and as the eagle that flyeth to the pray.
Job 9:27	If I say, I wil forget my complaynt, I will cease from my wrath, and comfort mee,
Job 9:28	Then I am afrayd of all my sorowes, knowing that thou wilt not iudge me innocent.
Job 9:29	If I be wicked, why labour I thus in vaine?
Job 9:30	If I wash my selfe with snowe water, and purge mine hands most cleane,
Job 9:31	Yet shalt thou plunge mee in the pit, and mine owne clothes shall make me filthie.
Job 9:32	For he is not a man as I am, that I shoulde answere him, if we come together to iudgement.
Job 9:33	Neyther is there any vmpire that might lay his hand vpon vs both.
Job 9:34	Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his feare astonish me:
Job 9:35	Then will I speake, and feare him not: but because I am not so, I holde me still.
Job 10:1	My soule is cut off though I liue: I wil leaue my complaint vpon my selfe, and wil speake in the bitternesse of my soule.
Job 10:2	I will say vnto God, Condemne mee not: shew me, wherefore thou contendest with mee.
Job 10:3	Thinkest thou it good to oppresse me, and to cast off the labour of thine handes, and to fauour the counsel of the wicked?
Job 10:4	Hast thou carnall eyes? or doest thou see as man seeth?
Job 10:5	Are thy dayes as mans dayes? or thy yeres, as the time of man,
Job 10:6	That thou inquirest of mine iniquitie, and searchest out my sinne?
Job 10:7	Thou knowest that I can not do wickedly: for none can deliuer me out of thine hand.
Job 10:8	Thine handes haue made me, and fashioned mee wholy rounde about, and wilt thou destroy me?
Job 10:9	Remember, I pray thee, that thou hast made me as the clay, and wilt thou bring me into dust againe?
Job 10:10	Hast thou not powred me out as milke? and turned me to cruds like cheese?
Job 10:11	Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, and ioyned me together with bones and sinewes.
Job 10:12	Thou hast giuen me life, and grace: and thy visitation hath preserued my spirit.
Job 10:13	Though thou hast hid these things in thine heart, yet I knowe that it is so with thee.
Job 10:14	If I haue sinned, then thou wilt streightly looke vnto me, and wilt not holde mee giltlesse of mine iniquitie.
Job 10:15	If I haue done wickedly, wo vnto me: if I haue done righteously, I will not lift vp mine head, being full of confusion, because I see mine affliction.
Job 10:16	But let it increase: hunt thou me as a lyon: returne and shew thy selfe marueilous vpon me.
Job 10:17	Thou renuest thy plagues against me, and thou increasest thy wrath against me: changes and armies of sorowes are against me.
Job 10:18	Wherfore then hast thou brought me out of the wombe? Oh that I had perished, and that none eye had seene me!
Job 10:19	And that I were as I had not bene, but brought from the wombe to the graue!
Job 10:20	Are not my dayes fewe? let him cease, and leaue off from me, that I may take a litle comfort,
Job 10:21	Before I goe and shall not returne, euen to the land of darkenesse and shadow of death:
Job 10:22	Into a land, I say, darke as darknes it selfe, and into the shadow of death, where is none order, but the light is there as darkenesse.
Job 11:1	Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and sayde,
Job 11:2	Should not the multitude of wordes be answered? or should a great talker be iustified?
Job 11:3	Should men holde their peace at thy lyes? and when thou mockest others, shall none make thee ashamed?
Job 11:4	For thou hast sayde, My doctrine is pure, and I am cleane in thine eyes.
Job 11:5	But, oh that God would speake and open his lippes against thee!
Job 11:6	That he might shewe thee the secretes of wisedome, howe thou hast deserued double, according to right: know therefore that God hath forgotten thee for thine iniquitie.
Job 11:7	Canst thou by searching finde out God? canst thou finde out ye Almighty to his perfection?
Job 11:8	The heauens are hie, what canst thou doe? it is deeper then the hell, how canst thou know it?
Job 11:9	The measure thereof is longer then the earth, and it is broader then the sea.
Job 11:10	If hee cut off and shut vp, or gather together, who can turne him backe?
Job 11:11	For hee knoweth vaine men, and seeth iniquitie, and him that vnderstandeth nothing.
Job 11:12	Yet vaine man would be wise, though man new borne is like a wilde asse colte.
Job 11:13	If thou prepare thine heart, and stretch out thine hands toward him:
Job 11:14	If iniquitie be in thine hand, put it farre away, and let no wickednesse dwell in thy Tabernacle.
Job 11:15	The truely shalt thou lift vp thy face without spot, and shalt be stable, and shalt not feare.
Job 11:16	But thou shalt forget thy miserie, and remember it as waters that are past.
Job 11:17	Thine age also shall appeare more cleare then the noone day: thou shalt shine and bee as the morning.
Job 11:18	And thou shalt bee bolde, because there is hope: and thou shalt digge pittes, and shalt lye downe safely.
Job 11:19	For when thou takest thy rest, none shall make thee afraide: yea, many shall make sute vnto thee.
Job 11:20	But the eyes of the wicked shall faile, and their refuge shall perish, and their hope shalbe sorow of minde.
Job 12:1	Then Iob answered, and sayde,
Job 12:2	In deede because that ye are the people onely, wisedome must dye with you.
Job 12:3	But I haue vnderstanding aswel as you, and am not inferior vnto you: yea, who knoweth not such things?
Job 12:4	I am as one mocked of his neighbour, who calleth vpon God, and he heareth him: the iust and the vpright is laughed to scorne.
Job 12:5	Hee that is readie to fall, is as a lampe despised in the opinion of the riche.
Job 12:6	The tabernacles of robbers doe prosper, and they are in safetie, that prouoke God, whome God hath enriched with his hand.
Job 12:7	Aske now the beasts, and they shall teach thee, and the foules of the heauen, and they shall tell thee:
Job 12:8	Or speake to the earth, and it shall shewe thee: or the fishes of the sea, and they shall declare vnto thee.
Job 12:9	Who is ignorant of all these, but that the hande of the Lord hath made these?
Job 12:10	In whose hande is the soule of euery liuing thing, and the breath of all mankinde.
Job 12:11	Doeth not the eares discerne the words? and the mouth taste meate for it selfe?
Job 12:12	Among the ancient is wisedome, and in the length of dayes is vnderstanding.
Job 12:13	With him is wisedome and strength: he hath counsell and vnderstanding.
Job 12:14	Beholde, he will breake downe, and it can not be built: he shutteth a man vp, and he can not be loosed.
Job 12:15	Beholde, he withholdeth the waters, and they drie vp: but when he sendeth them out, they destroy the earth.
Job 12:16	With him is strength and wisedome: hee that is deceiued, and that deceiueth, are his.
Job 12:17	He causeth the counsellers to goe as spoyled, and maketh the iudges fooles.
Job 12:18	He looseth the collar of Kings, and girdeth their loynes with a girdle.
Job 12:19	He leadeth away the princes as a pray, and ouerthroweth the mightie.
Job 12:20	He taketh away the speach from the faithfull counsellers, and taketh away the iudgement of the ancient.
Job 12:21	He powreth contempt vpon princes, and maketh the strength of the mightie weake.
Job 12:22	He discouereth the deepe places from their darkenesse, and bringeth foorth the shadowe of death to light.
Job 12:23	He increaseth the people, and destroyeth them: he inlargeth the nations, and bringeth them in againe.
Job 12:24	He taketh away the heartes of the that are the chiefe ouer the people of the earth, and maketh them to wander in the wildernes out of the way.
Job 12:25	They grope in the darke without light: and he maketh the to stagger like a drunken man.
Job 13:1	Loe, mine eye hath seene all this: mine eare hath heard, and vnderstande it.
Job 13:2	I knowe also as much as you knowe: I am not inferiour vnto you.
Job 13:3	But I will speake to the Almightie, and I desire to dispute with God.
Job 13:4	For in deede ye forge lyes, and all you are physitions of no value.
Job 13:5	Oh, that you woulde holde your tongue, that it might be imputed to you for wisedome!
Job 13:6	Nowe heare my disputation, and giue eare to the arguments of my lips.
Job 13:7	Will ye speake wickedly for Gods defence, and talke deceitfully for his cause?
Job 13:8	Will ye accept his person? or will ye contende for God?
Job 13:9	Is it well that he shoulde seeke of you? will you make a lye for him, as one lyeth for a man?
Job 13:10	He will surely reprooue you, if ye doe secretly accept any person.
Job 13:11	Shall not his excellencie make you afraid? and his feare fall vpon you?
Job 13:12	Your memories may be compared vnto ashes, and your bodyes to bodyes of clay.
Job 13:13	Holde your tongues in my presence, that I may speake, and let come vpon what will.
Job 13:14	Wherefore doe I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my soule in mine hande?
Job 13:15	Loe, though he slay me, yet will I trust in him, and I will reprooue my wayes in his sight.
Job 13:16	He shalbe my saluation also: for the hypocrite shall not come before him.
Job 13:17	Heare diligently my wordes, and marke my talke.
Job 13:18	Beholde nowe: if I prepare me to iudgement, I knowe that I shalbe iustified.
Job 13:19	Who is he, that will pleade with me? for if I nowe holde my tongue, I dye.
Job 13:20	But doe not these two things vnto me: then will I not hide my selfe from thee.
Job 13:21	Withdrawe thine hande from me, and let not thy feare make me afraide.
Job 13:22	Then call thou, and I will answere: or let me speake, and answere thou me.
Job 13:23	Howe many are mine iniquities and sinnes? shewe me my rebellion, and my sinne.
Job 13:24	Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and takest me for thine enemie?
Job 13:25	Wilt thou breake a leafe driuen to and from? and wilt thou pursue the drie stubble?
Job 13:26	For thou writest bitter things against me, and makest me to possesse the iniquities of my youth.
Job 13:27	Thou puttest my feete also in the stocks, and lookest narrowly vnto all my pathes, and makest the print thereof in ye heeles of my feet.
Job 13:28	Such one consumeth like a rotten thing, and as a garment that is motheaten.
Job 14:1	Man that is borne of woman, is of short continuance, and full of trouble.
Job 14:2	He shooteth foorth as a flowre, and is cut downe: he vanisheth also as a shadowe, and continueth not.
Job 14:3	And yet thou openest thine eyes vpon such one, and causest me to enter into iudgement with thee.
Job 14:4	Who can bring a cleane thing out of filthinesse? there is not one.
Job 14:5	Are not his dayes determined? the nober of his moneths are with thee: thou hast appointed his boundes, which he can not passe.
Job 14:6	Turne from him that he may cease vntill his desired day, as an hyreling.
Job 14:7	For there is hope of a tree, if it bee cut downe, that it will yet sproute, and the branches thereof will not cease.
Job 14:8	Though the roote of it waxe olde in the earth, and the stocke thereof be dead in ye ground,
Job 14:9	Yet by the sent of water it will bud, and bring foorth boughes like a plant.
Job 14:10	But man is sicke, and dyeth, and man perisheth, and where is he?
Job 14:11	As the waters passe from the sea, and as the flood decayeth and dryeth vp,
Job 14:12	So man sleepeth and riseth not: for hee shall not wake againe, nor be raised from his sleepe till the heauen be no more.
Job 14:13	Oh that thou wouldest hide me in the graue, and keepe me secret, vntill thy wrath were past, and wouldest giue me terme, and remember me.
Job 14:14	If a man die, shall he liue againe? All the dayes of mine appointed time will I waite, till my changing shall come.
Job 14:15	Thou shalt call me, and I shall answere thee: thou louest the worke of thine own hands.
Job 14:16	But nowe thou nombrest my steppes, and doest not delay my sinnes.
Job 14:17	Mine iniquitie is sealed vp, as in a bagge, and thou addest vnto my wickednesse.
Job 14:18	And surely as the mountaine that falleth, commeth to nought, and the rocke that is remooued from his place:
Job 14:19	As the water breaketh the stones, when thou ouerflowest the things which growe in the dust of ye earth: so thou destroyest ye hope of man.
Job 14:20	Thou preuailest alway against him, so that he passeth away: he changeth his face when thou castest him away.
Job 14:21	And he knoweth not if his sonnes shall be honourable, neither shall he vnderstand concerning them, whether they shalbe of lowe degree,
Job 14:22	But while his flesh is vpon him, he shall be sorowfull, and while his soule is in him, it shall mourne.
Job 15:1	Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and saide,
Job 15:2	Shal a wise man speake words of ye winde, and fill his bellie with the East winde?
Job 15:3	Shall he dispute with wordes not comely? or with talke that is not profitable?
Job 15:4	Surely thou hast cast off feare, and restrainest prayer before God.
Job 15:5	For thy mouth declareth thine iniquitie, seeing thou hast chosen ye tongue of the crafty.
Job 15:6	Thine owne mouth condemneth thee, and not I, and thy lippes testifie against thee.
Job 15:7	Art thou the first man, that was borne? and wast thou made before the hils?
Job 15:8	Hast thou heard the secret counsell of God, and doest thou restraine wisedome to thee?
Job 15:9	What knowest thou that we knowe not? and vnderstandest that is not in vs?
Job 15:10	With vs are both auncient and very aged men, farre older then thy father.
Job 15:11	Seeme the consolations of God small vnto thee? is this thing strange vnto thee?
Job 15:12	Why doeth thine heart take thee away, and what doe thine eyes meane,
Job 15:13	That thou answerest to God at thy pleasure, and bringest such wordes out of thy mouth?
Job 15:14	What is man, that he should be cleane? and he that is borne of woman, that he shoulde be iust?
Job 15:15	Beholde, he founde no stedfastnesse in his Saintes: yea, the heauens are not cleane in his sight.
Job 15:16	How much more is man abominable, and filthie, which drinketh iniquitie like water?
Job 15:17	I will tell thee: heare me, and I will declare that which I haue seene:
Job 15:18	Which wise men haue tolde, as they haue heard of their fathers, and haue not kept it secret:
Job 15:19	To whome alone the land was giuen and no stranger passed through them.
Job 15:20	The wicked man is continually as one that traueileth of childe, and the nomber of yeeres is hid from the tyrant.
Job 15:21	A sounde of feare is in his eares, and in his prosperitie the destroyer shall come vpon him.
Job 15:22	He beleeueth not to returne out of darknesse: for he seeth the sworde before him.
Job 15:23	He wandreth to and from for bread where he may: he knoweth that the day of darkenesse is prepared at hande.
Job 15:24	Affliction and anguish shall make him afraide: they shall preuaile against him as a King readie to the battell.
Job 15:25	For he hath stretched out his hand against GOD, and made him selfe strong against the Almightie.
Job 15:26	Therefore God shall runne vpon him, euen vpon his necke, and against the most thicke part of his shielde.
Job 15:27	Because he hath couered his face with his fatnesse, and hath colloppes in his flancke.
Job 15:28	Though he dwell in desolate cities, and in houses which no man inhabiteth, but are become heapes,
Job 15:29	He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue, neither shall he prolong the perfection thereof in the earth.
Job 15:30	He shall neuer depart out of darkenesse: the flame shall drie vp his branches, and he shall goe away with the breath of his mouth.
Job 15:31	He beleeueth not that he erreth in vanitie: therefore vanitie shalbe his change.
Job 15:32	His branch shall not be greene, but shall be cut off before his day.
Job 15:33	God shall destroy him as the vine her sower grape, and shall cast him off, as the oliue doeth her flowre.
Job 15:34	For the congregation of the hypocrite shalbe desolate, and fire shall deuoure the houses of bribes.
Job 15:35	For they conceiue mischiefe and bring foorth vanitie, and their bellie hath prepared deceite.
Job 16:1	Bvt Iob answered, and said,
Job 16:2	I haue oft times heard such things: miserable comforters are ye all.
Job 16:3	Shall there be none ende of wordes of winde? or what maketh thee bold so to answere?
Job 16:4	I could also speake as yee doe: (but woulde God your soule were in my soules stead) I could keepe you company in speaking, and could shake mine head at you,
Job 16:5	But I woulde strengthen you with my mouth, and the comfort of my lips should asswage your sorowe.
Job 16:6	Though I speake, my sorow can not be asswaged: though I cease, what release haue I?
Job 16:7	But now hee maketh mee wearie: O God, thou hast made all my congregation desolate,
Job 16:8	And hast made me full of wrinkles which is a witnesse thereof, and my leannes ryseth vp in me, testifying the same in my face.
Job 16:9	His wrath hath torne me, and hee hateth me, and gnasheth vpon mee with his teeth: mine enemie hath sharpened his eyes against me.
Job 16:10	They haue opened their mouthes vpon me, and smitten me on the cheeke in reproch; they gather themselues together against me.
Job 16:11	God hath deliuered me to the vniust, and hath made mee to turne out of the way by the hands of the wicked.
Job 16:12	I was in welth, but he hath brought me to nought: he hath taken me by the necke, and beaten me, and set me as a marke for himselfe.
Job 16:13	His archers compasse mee rounde about: he cutteth my reines, and doth not spare, and powreth my gall vpon the ground.
Job 16:14	He hath broken me with one breaking vpon another, and runneth vpon me like a gyant.
Job 16:15	I haue sowed a sackcloth vpon my skinne, and haue abased mine horne vnto the dust.
Job 16:16	My face is withered with weeping, and the shadow of death is vpon mine eyes,
Job 16:17	Though there be no wickednesse in mine hands, and my prayer be pure.
Job 16:18	O earth, couer not thou my blood, and let my crying finde no place.
Job 16:19	For lo, now my witnesse is in the heauen, and my record is on hie.
Job 16:20	My friends speake eloquently against me: but mine eye powreth out teares vnto God.
Job 16:21	Oh that a man might pleade with God, as man with his neighbour!
Job 16:22	For the yeeres accounted come, and I shall go the way, whence I shall not returne.
Job 17:1	My breath is corrupt: my dayes are cut off, and the graue is readie for me.
Job 17:2	There are none but mockers with mee, and mine eye continueth in their bitternesse.
Job 17:3	Lay downe nowe and put me in suretie for thee: who is hee, that will touch mine hand?
Job 17:4	For thou hast hid their heart from vnderstanding: therefore shalt thou not set them vp on hie.
Job 17:5	For the eyes of his children shall faile, that speaketh flattery to his friends.
Job 17:6	Hee hath also made mee a byword of the people, and I am as a Tabret before them.
Job 17:7	Mine eye therefore is dimme for griefe, and all my strength is like a shadowe.
Job 17:8	The righteous shalbe astonied at this, and the innocent shalbe moued against ye hypocrite.
Job 17:9	But the righteous wil holde his way, and he whose hands are pure, shall increase his strength.
Job 17:10	All you therefore turne you, and come nowe, and I shall not finde one wise among you.
Job 17:11	My dayes are past, mine enterprises are broken, and the thoughts of mine heart
Job 17:12	Haue changed the nyght for the day, and the light that approched, for darkenesse.
Job 17:13	Though I hope, yet the graue shall bee mine house, and I shall make my bed in the darke.
Job 17:14	I shall say to corruption, Thou art my father, and to the worme, Thou art my mother and my sister.
Job 17:15	Where is then now mine hope? or who shall consider the thing, that I hoped for?
Job 17:16	They shall goe downe into the bottome of the pit: surely it shall lye together in the dust.
Job 18:1	Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,
Job 18:2	When will yee make an ende of your words? cause vs to vnderstande, and then wee will speake.
Job 18:3	Wherefore are wee counted as beastes, and are vile in your sight?
Job 18:4	Thou art as one that teareth his soule in his anger. Shall the earth bee forsaken for thy sake? or the rocke remoued out of his place?
Job 18:5	Yea, the light of the wicked shalbe quenched, and the sparke of his fire shall not shine.
Job 18:6	The light shalbe darke in his dwelling, and his candle shalbe put out with him.
Job 18:7	The steps of his strength shalbe restrained, and his owne counsell shall cast him downe.
Job 18:8	For hee is taken in the net by his feete, and he walketh vpon the snares.
Job 18:9	The grenne shall take him by the heele, and the theefe shall come vpon him.
Job 18:10	A snare is layed for him in the ground, and a trappe for him in the way.
Job 18:11	Fearefulnesse shall make him afrayde on euery side, and shall driue him to his feete.
Job 18:12	His strength shalbe famine: and destruction shalbe readie at his side.
Job 18:13	It shall deuoure the inner partes of his skinne, and the first borne of death shall deuoure his strength.
Job 18:14	His hope shalbe rooted out of his dwelling, and shall cause him to go to the King of feare.
Job 18:15	Feare shall dwell in his house (because it is not his) and brimstone shalbe scattered vpon his habitation.
Job 18:16	His rootes shalbe dryed vp beneath, and aboue shall his branche be cut downe.
Job 18:17	His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall haue no name in the streete.
Job 18:18	They shall driue him out of the light vnto darkenesse, and chase him out of the world.
Job 18:19	Hee shall neither haue sonne nor nephewe among his people, nor any posteritie in his dwellings.
Job 18:20	The posteritie shalbe astonied at his day, and feare shall come vpon the ancient.
Job 18:21	Surely such are the habitations of the wicked, and this is the place of him that knoweth not God.
Job 19:1	Bvt Iob answered, and said,
Job 19:2	Howe long will yee vexe my soule, and torment me with wordes?
Job 19:3	Ye haue now ten times reproched me, and are not ashamed: ye are impudent toward mee.
Job 19:4	And though I had in deede erred, mine errour remaineth with me.
Job 19:5	But in deede if ye will aduance your selues against me, and rebuke me for my reproche,
Job 19:6	Know nowe, that God hath ouerthrowen me, and hath compassed me with his net.
Job 19:7	Beholde, I crie out of violence, but I haue none answere: I crie, but there is no iudgement.
Job 19:8	Hee hath hedged vp my way that I cannot passe, and he hath set darkenesse in my paths.
Job 19:9	Hee hath spoyled mee of mine honour, and taken the crowne away from mine head.
Job 19:10	He hath destroyed mee on euery side and I am gone: and he hath remoued mine hope like a tree.
Job 19:11	And he hath kindled his wrath against me, and counteth mee as one of his enemies.
Job 19:12	His armies came together, and made their way vpon me, and camped about my tabernacle.
Job 19:13	He hath remooued my brethre farre from me, and also mine acquaintance were strangers vnto me.
Job 19:14	My neighbours haue forsaken me, and my familiars haue forgotten me.
Job 19:15	They that dwel in mine house, and my maydes tooke me for a stranger: for I was a stranger in their sight.
Job 19:16	I called my seruant, but he would not answere, though I prayed him with my mouth.
Job 19:17	My breath was strange vnto my wife, though I prayed her for the childrens sake of mine owne body.
Job 19:18	The wicked also despised mee, and when I rose, they spake against me.
Job 19:19	All my secret friends abhorred me, and they whome I loued, are turned against me.
Job 19:20	My bone cleaueth to my skinne and to my flesh, and I haue escaped with the skinne of my teeth.
Job 19:21	Haue pitie vpon me: haue pitie vpon me, (O yee my friendes) for the hande of God hath touched me.
Job 19:22	Why do ye persecute me, as God? and are not satisfied with my flesh?
Job 19:23	Oh that my wordes were nowe written! oh that they were written euen in a booke,
Job 19:24	And grauen with an yron pen in lead, or in stone for euer!
Job 19:25	For I am sure, that my Redeemer liueth, and he shall stand the last on the earth.
Job 19:26	And though after my skin wormes destroy this bodie, yet shall I see God in my flesh.
Job 19:27	Whome I my selfe shall see, and mine eyes shall beholde, and none other for me, though my reynes are consumed within me.
Job 19:28	But yee sayde, Why is hee persecuted? And there was a deepe matter in me.
Job 19:29	Be ye afraide of the sworde: for the sworde will be auenged of wickednesse, that yee may knowe that there is a iudgement.
Job 20:1	Then answered Zophar the Naamathite and saide,
Job 20:2	Doubtlesse my thoughts cause me to answere, and therefore I make haste.
Job 20:3	I haue heard the correction of my reproch: therefore the spirite of mine vnderstanding causeth me to answere.
Job 20:4	Knowest thou not this of olde? and since God placed man vpon the earth,
Job 20:5	That the reioycing of the wicked is short, and that the ioy of hypocrites is but a moment?
Job 20:6	Though his excellencie mount vp to the heauen, and his head reache vnto the cloudes,
Job 20:7	Yet shall hee perish for euer, like his dung, and they which haue seene him, shall say, Where is hee?
Job 20:8	He shall flee away as a dreame, and they shall not finde him, and shall passe away as a vision of the night,
Job 20:9	So that the eye which had seene him, shall do so no more, and his place shall see him no more.
Job 20:10	His children shall flatter the poore, and his hands shall restore his substance.
Job 20:11	His bones are full of the sinne of his youth, and it shall lie downe with him in the dust.
Job 20:12	When wickednesse was sweete in his mouth, and he hid it vnder his tongue,
Job 20:13	And fauoured it, and would not forsake it, but kept it close in his mouth,
Job 20:14	Then his meat in his bowels was turned: the gall of Aspes was in the middes of him.
Job 20:15	He hath deuoured substance, and hee shall vomit it: for God shall drawe it out of his bellie.
Job 20:16	He shall sucke the gall of Aspes, and the vipers tongue shall slay him.
Job 20:17	He shall not see the riuers, nor the floods and streames of honie and butter.
Job 20:18	He shall restore the labour, and shall deuoure no more: euen according to the substance shalbe his exchange, and he shall enioy it no more.
Job 20:19	For he hath vndone many: he hath forsaken the poore, and hath spoyled houses which he builded not.
Job 20:20	Surely he shall feele no quietnes in his bodie, neither shall he reserue of that which he desired.
Job 20:21	There shall none of his meate bee left: therefore none shall hope for his goods.
Job 20:22	When he shalbe filled with his abundance, he shalbe in paine, and the hand of all the wicked shall assaile him.
Job 20:23	He shall be about to fill his belly, but God shall sende vpon him his fierce wrath, and shall cause to rayne vpon him, euen vpon his meate.
Job 20:24	He shall flee from the yron weapons, and the bow of steele shall strike him through.
Job 20:25	The arrowe is drawen out, and commeth forth of the body, and shineth of his gall, so feare commeth vpon him.
Job 20:26	All darkenes shalbe hid in his secret places: the fire that is not blowen, shall deuoure him, and that which remaineth in his tabernacle, shalbe destroyed.
Job 20:27	The heauen shall declare his wickednes, and the earth shall rise vp against him.
Job 20:28	The increase of his house shall go away: it shall flow away in the day of his wrath.
Job 20:29	This is the portion of the wicked man from God, and the heritage that he shall haue of God for his wordes.
Job 21:1	Bvt Iob answered, and sayd,
Job 21:2	Heare diligently my wordes, and this shalbe in stead of your consolations.
Job 21:3	Suffer mee, that I may speake, and when I haue spoken, mocke on.
Job 21:4	Doe I direct my talke to man? If it were so, how should not my spirit be troubled?
Job 21:5	Marke mee, and be abashed, and lay your hand vpon your mouth.
Job 21:6	Euen when I remember, I am afrayde, and feare taketh hold on my flesh.
Job 21:7	Wherefore do the wicked liue, and waxe olde, and grow in wealth?
Job 21:8	Their seede is established in their sight with them, and their generation before their eyes.
Job 21:9	Their houses are peaceable without feare, and the rod of God is not vpon them.
Job 21:10	Their bullocke gendreth, and fayleth not: their cow calueth, and casteth not her calfe.
Job 21:11	They send forth their children like sheepe, and their sonnes dance.
Job 21:12	They take the tabret and harpe, and reioyce in the sound of the organs.
Job 21:13	They spend their dayes in wealth, and suddenly they go downe to the graue.
Job 21:14	They say also vnto God, Depart from vs: for we desire not the knowledge of thy wayes.
Job 21:15	Who is the Almightie, that we should serue him? and what profit should we haue, if we should pray vnto him?
Job 21:16	Lo, their wealth is not in their hand: therfore let the counsell of the wicked bee farre from me.
Job 21:17	How oft shall the candle of the wicked be put out? and their destruction come vpon them? he wil deuide their liues in his wrath.
Job 21:18	They shall be as stubble before the winde, and as chaffe that the storme carieth away.
Job 21:19	God wil lay vp the sorowe of the father for his children: when he rewardeth him, hee shall knowe it.
Job 21:20	His eyes shall see his destruction, and he shall drinke of the wrath of the Almightie.
Job 21:21	For what pleasure hath he in his house after him, when the nomber of his moneths is cut off?
Job 21:22	Shall any teache God knowledge, who iudgeth the highest things?
Job 21:23	One dyeth in his full strength, being in all ease and prosperitie.
Job 21:24	His breasts are full of milke, and his bones runne full of marowe.
Job 21:25	And another dieth in the bitternes of his soule, and neuer eateth with pleasure.
Job 21:26	They shall sleepe both in the dust, and the wormes shall couer them.
Job 21:27	Behold, I know your thoughts, and the enterprises, wherewith ye do me wrong.
Job 21:28	For ye say, Where is the princes house? and where is the tabernacle of the wickeds dwelling?
Job 21:29	May ye not aske the that go by the way? and ye can not deny their signes.
Job 21:30	But the wicked is kept vnto the day of destruction, and they shall be brought forth to the day of wrath.
Job 21:31	Who shall declare his way to his face? and who shall reward him for that he hath done?
Job 21:32	Yet shall he be brought to the graue, and remaine in the heape.
Job 21:33	The slimie valley shalbe sweete vnto him, and euery man shall draw after him, as before him there were innumerable.
Job 21:34	How then comfort ye me in vaine, seeing in your answeres there remaine but lyes?
Job 22:1	Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered, and sayde,
Job 22:2	May a man be profitable vnto God, as he that is wise, may be profitable to himselfe?
Job 22:3	Is it any thing vnto the Almightie, that thou art righteous? or is it profitable to him, that thou makest thy wayes vpright?
Job 22:4	Is it for feare of thee that he will accuse thee? or go with thee into iudgement?
Job 22:5	Is not thy wickednes great, and thine iniquities innumerable?
Job 22:6	For thou hast taken the pledge from thy brother for nought, and spoyled the clothes of the naked.
Job 22:7	To such as were wearie, thou hast not giuen water to drinke, and hast withdrawen bread from the hungrie.
Job 22:8	But the mightie man had the earth, and he that was in autoritie, dwelt in it.
Job 22:9	Thou hast cast out widowes emptie, and the armes of the fatherles were broken.
Job 22:10	Therefore snares are round about thee, and feare shall suddenly trouble thee:
Job 22:11	Or darkenes that thou shouldest not see, and abundance of waters shall couer thee.
Job 22:12	Is not God on hie in the heauen? and behold the height of the starres how hie they are.
Job 22:13	But thou sayest, How should God know? can he iudge through the darke cloude?
Job 22:14	The cloudes hide him that he can not see, and he walketh in the circle of heauen.
Job 22:15	Hast thou marked the way of the worlde, wherein wicked men haue walked?
Job 22:16	Which were cut downe before the time, whose foundation was as a riuer that ouerflowed:
Job 22:17	Which sayd vnto God, Depart from vs, and asked what the Almightie could do for them.
Job 22:18	Yet hee filled their houses with good things: but let the counsell of the wicked be farre from me.
Job 22:19	The righteous shall see them, and shall reioyce, and the innocent shall laugh them to scorne.
Job 22:20	Surely our substance is hid: but the fire hath deuoured the remnant of them.
Job 22:21	Therefore acquaint thy selfe, I pray thee, with him, and make peace: thereby thou shalt haue prosperitie.
Job 22:22	Receiue, I pray thee, the law of his mouth, and lay vp his words in thine heart.
Job 22:23	If thou returne to the Almightie, thou shalt be buylt vp, and thou shalt put iniquitie farre from thy tabernacle.
Job 22:24	Thou shalt lay vp golde for dust, and the gold of Ophir, as the flintes of the riuers.
Job 22:25	Yea, the Almightie shalbe thy defence, and thou shalt haue plentie of siluer.
Job 22:26	And thou shalt then delite in the Almightie, and lift vp thy face vnto God.
Job 22:27	Thou shalt make thy praier vnto him, and he shall heare thee, and thou shalt render thy vowes.
Job 22:28	Thou shalt also decree a thing, and he shall establish it vnto thee, and the light shall shine vpon thy wayes.
Job 22:29	When others are cast downe, then shalt thou say, I am lifted vp: and God shall saue the humble person.
Job 22:30	The innocent shall deliuer the yland, and it shalbe preserued by the purenes of thine hands.
Job 23:1	Bvt Iob answered and sayd,
Job 23:2	Though my talke be this day in bitternes, and my plague greater then my groning,
Job 23:3	Would God yet I knew how to finde him, I would enter vnto his place.
Job 23:4	I would pleade the cause before him, and fill my mouth with arguments.
Job 23:5	I would knowe the wordes, that he would answere me, and would vnderstand what he would say vnto me.
Job 23:6	Would he plead against me with his great power? No, but he would put strength in me.
Job 23:7	There the righteous might reason with him, so I shoulde be deliuered for euer from my Iudge.
Job 23:8	Behold, if I go to the East, he is not there: if to the West, yet I can not perceiue him:
Job 23:9	If to the North where he worketh, yet I cannot see him: he wil hide himselfe in the South, and I cannot beholde him.
Job 23:10	But he knoweth my way, and trieth mee, and I shall come forth like the gold.
Job 23:11	My foote hath followed his steps: his way haue I kept, and haue not declined.
Job 23:12	Neyther haue I departed from the commandement of his lippes, and I haue esteemed the words of his mouth more then mine appointed foode.
Job 23:13	Yet he is in one minde, and who can turne him? yea, he doeth what his minde desireth.
Job 23:14	For he will performe that, which is decreed of me, and many such things are with him.
Job 23:15	Therefore I am troubled at his presence, and in considering it, I am afraid of him.
Job 23:16	For God hath softened mine heart, and the Almightie hath troubled me.
Job 23:17	For I am not cut off in darknesse, but he hath hid the darkenesse from my face.
Job 24:1	Howe should not the times be hid from the Almightie, seeing that they which knowe him, see not his dayes?
Job 24:2	Some remoue the land marks, that rob the flockes and feede thereof.
Job 24:3	They leade away the asse of the fatherles: and take the widowes oxe to pledge.
Job 24:4	They make the poore to turne out of the way, so that the poore of the earth hide themselues together.
Job 24:5	Behold, others as wilde asses in the wildernesse, goe forth to their businesse, and rise early for a praye: the wildernesse giueth him and his children foode.
Job 24:6	They reape his prouision in the fielde, but they gather the late vintage of the wicked.
Job 24:7	They cause the naked to lodge without garment, and without couering in the colde.
Job 24:8	They are wet with the showres of the moutaines, and they imbrace the rocke for want of a couering.
Job 24:9	They plucke the fatherles from the breast, and take the pledge of the poore.
Job 24:10	They cause him to go naked without clothing, and take the glening from the hungrie.
Job 24:11	They that make oyle betweene their walles, and treade their wine presses, suffer thirst.
Job 24:12	Men cry out of the citie, and the soules of the slayne cry out: yet God doth not charge them with follie.
Job 24:13	These are they, that abhorre the light: they know not the wayes thereof, nor continue in the paths thereof.
Job 24:14	The murtherer riseth earely and killeth the poore and the needie: and in the night he is as a theefe.
Job 24:15	The eye also of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, and sayth, None eye shall see me, and disguiseth his face.
Job 24:16	They digge through houses in the darke, which they marked for themselues in the daye: they knowe not the light.
Job 24:17	But the morning is euen to them as the shadow of death: if one knowe them, they are in the terrours of the shadowe of death.
Job 24:18	He is swift vpon the waters: their portion shalbe cursed in the earth: he will not behold the way of the vineyardes.
Job 24:19	As the dry ground and heate consume the snowe waters, so shall the graue the sinners.
Job 24:20	The pitifull man shall forget him: the worme shall feele his sweetenes: he shalbe no more remembered, and the wicked shalbe broke like a tree.
Job 24:21	He doth euil intreat ye barren, that doeth not beare, neither doeth he good to the widowe.
Job 24:22	He draweth also the mighty by his power, and when he riseth vp, none is sure of life.
Job 24:23	Though men giue him assurance to be in safetie, yet his eyes are vpon their wayes.
Job 24:24	They are exalted for a litle, but they are gone, and are brought lowe as all others: they are destroyed, and cut off as the toppe of an eare of corne.
Job 24:25	But if it be not so, where is he? or who wil proue me a lyer, and make my words of no value?
Job 25:1	Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and sayd,
Job 25:2	Power and feare is with him, that maketh peace in his hie places.
Job 25:3	Is there any nomber in his armies? and vpon whom shall not his light arise?
Job 25:4	And howe may a man be iustified with God? or how can he be cleane, that is borne of woman?
Job 25:5	Behold, he wil giue no light to the moone, and the starres are vncleane in his sight.
Job 25:6	How much more man, a worme, euen the sonne of man, which is but a worme?
Job 26:1	Bvt Iob answered, and sayde,
Job 26:2	Whom helpest thou? him that hath no power? sauest thou the arme that hath no strength?
Job 26:3	Whome counsellest thou? him that hath no wisedome? thou shewest right well as the thing is.
Job 26:4	To whom doest thou declare these words? or whose spirit commeth out of thee?
Job 26:5	The dead things are formed vnder the waters, and neere vnto them.
Job 26:6	The graue is naked before him, and there is no couering for destruction.
Job 26:7	He stretcheth out the North ouer the emptie place, and hangeth the earth vpon nothing.
Job 26:8	He bindeth the waters in his cloudes, and the cloude is not broken vnder them.
Job 26:9	He holdeth backe the face of his throne: and spreadeth his cloude vpon it.
Job 26:10	He hath set bounds about the waters, vntil the day and night come to an ende.
Job 26:11	The pillars of heauen tremble and quake at his reproofe.
Job 26:12	The sea is calme by his power, and by his vnderstanding he smiteth the pride thereof.
Job 26:13	His Spirite hath garnished the heauens, and his hand hath formed the crooked serpent.
Job 26:14	Loe, these are part of his wayes: but how litle a portion heare we of him? and who can vnderstand his fearefull power?
Job 27:1	Moreouer Iob proceeded and continued his parable, saying,
Job 27:2	The liuing God hath taken away my iudgement: for the Almightie hath put my soule in bitternesse.
Job 27:3	Yet so long as my breath is in me, and the Spirit of God in my nostrels,
Job 27:4	My lips surely shall speake no wickednesse, and my tongue shall vtter no deceite.
Job 27:5	God forbid, that I should iustifie you: vntill I dye, I will neuer take away mine innocencie from my selfe.
Job 27:6	I will keepe my righteousnesse, and wil not forsake it: mine heart shall not reprooue me of my dayes.
Job 27:7	Mine enemie shall be as the wicked, and he that riseth against me, as the vnrighteous.
Job 27:8	For what hope hath the hypocrite when he hath heaped vp riches, if God take away his soule?
Job 27:9	Will God heare his cry, when trouble commeth vpon him?
Job 27:10	Will he set his delight on the Almightie? will he call vpon God at all times?
Job 27:11	I will teache you what is in the hande of God, and I wil not conceale that which is with the Almightie.
Job 27:12	Beholde, all ye your selues haue seene it: why then doe you thus vanish in vanitie?
Job 27:13	This is the portion of a wicked man with God, and the heritage of tyrants, which they shall receiue of the Almightie.
Job 27:14	If his children be in great nomber, the sworde shall destroy them, and his posteritie shall not be satisfied with bread.
Job 27:15	His remnant shall be buried in death, and his widowes shall not weepe.
Job 27:16	Though he shoulde heape vp siluer as the dust, and prepare rayment as the clay,
Job 27:17	He may prepare it, but the iust shall put it on, and the innocent shall deuide the siluer.
Job 27:18	He buildeth his house as the moth, and as a lodge that the watchman maketh.
Job 27:19	When the rich man sleepeth, he shall not be gathered to his fathers: they opened their eyes, and he was gone.
Job 27:20	Terrours shall take him as waters, and a tempest shall cary him away by night.
Job 27:21	The East winde shall take him away, and he shall depart: and it shall hurle him out of his place.
Job 27:22	And God shall cast vpon him and not spare, though he would faine flee out of his hand.
Job 27:23	Euery man shall clap their hands at him, and hisse at him out of their place.
Job 28:1	The siluer surely hath his veyne, and ye gold his place, where they take it.
Job 28:2	Yron is taken out of the dust, and brasse is molten out of the stone.
Job 28:3	God putteth an end to darkenesse, and he tryeth the perfection of all things: he setteth a bond of darkenesse, and of the shadowe of death.
Job 28:4	The flood breaketh out against the inhabitant, and the waters forgotten of the foote, being higher then man, are gone away.
Job 28:5	Out of the same earth commeth bread, and vnder it, as it were fire is turned vp.
Job 28:6	The stones thereof are a place of saphirs, and the dust of it is golde.
Job 28:7	There is a path which no foule hath knowen, neyther hath the kites eye seene it.
Job 28:8	The lyons whelpes haue not walked it, nor the lyon passed thereby.
Job 28:9	He putteth his hand vpon the rockes, and ouerthroweth the mountaines by the rootes.
Job 28:10	He breaketh riuers in the rockes, and his eye seeth euery precious thing.
Job 28:11	He bindeth the floods, that they doe not ouerflowe, and the thing that is hid, bringeth he to light.
Job 28:12	But where is wisdome found? and where is the place of vnderstanding?
Job 28:13	Man knoweth not the price thereof: for it is not found in the land of the liuing.
Job 28:14	The depth sayth, It is not in mee: the sea also sayth, It is not with me.
Job 28:15	Golde shall not be giuen for it, neyther shall siluer be weighed for the price thereof.
Job 28:16	It shall not be valued with the wedge of golde of Ophir, nor with the precious onix, nor the saphir.
Job 28:17	The golde nor the chrystall shall be equall vnto it, nor the exchange shalbe for plate of fine golde.
Job 28:18	No mention shall be made of coral, nor of the gabish: for wisedome is more precious then pearles.
Job 28:19	The Topaz of Ethiopia shall not be equall vnto it, neither shall it be valued with the wedge of pure gold.
Job 28:20	Whence then commeth wisedome? and where is the place of vnderstanding,
Job 28:21	Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all the liuing, and is hid from the foules of the heauen?
Job 28:22	Destruction and death say, We haue heard the fame thereof with our eares.
Job 28:23	But God vnderstandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth the place thereof.
Job 28:24	For he beholdeth the endes of the world, and seeth all that is vnder heauen,
Job 28:25	To make the weight of the windes, and to weigh the waters by measure.
Job 28:26	When he made a decree for the rayne, and a way for the lightening of the thunders,
Job 28:27	Then did he see it, and counted it: he prepared it and also considered it.
Job 28:28	And vnto man he said, Behold, the feare of the Lord is wisedome, and to depart from euil is vnderstanding.
Job 29:1	So Iob proceeded and continued his parable, saying,
Job 29:2	Oh that I were as in times past, when God preserued me!
Job 29:3	When his light shined vpon mine head: and when by his light I walked thorowe the darkenesse,
Job 29:4	As I was in the dayes of my youth: when Gods prouidence was vpon my tabernacle:
Job 29:5	When the almightie was yet with me, and my children round about me.
Job 29:6	When I washed my pathes with butter, and when the rocke powred me out riuers of oyle:
Job 29:7	When I went out to the gate, euen to the iudgement seat, and when I caused them to prepare my seate in the streete.
Job 29:8	The yong men saw me, and hid themselues, and the aged arose, and stood vp.
Job 29:9	The princes stayed talke, and layde their hand on their mouth.
Job 29:10	The voyce of princes was hidde, and their tongue cleaued to the roofe of their mouth.
Job 29:11	And when the eare heard me, it blessed me: and when the eye sawe me, it gaue witnesse to me.
Job 29:12	For I deliuered the poore that cryed, and the fatherlesse, and him that had none to helpe him.
Job 29:13	The blessing of him that was ready to perish, came vpon me, and I caused the widowes heart to reioyce.
Job 29:14	I put on iustice, and it couered me: my iudgement was as a robe, and a crowne.
Job 29:15	I was the eyes to the blinde, and I was the feete to the lame.
Job 29:16	I was a father vnto the poore, and when I knewe not the cause, I sought it out diligently.
Job 29:17	I brake also the chawes of the vnrighteous man, and pluckt the praye out of his teeth.
Job 29:18	Then I sayde, I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiplie my dayes as the sand.
Job 29:19	For my roote is spread out by the water, and the dewe shall lye vpon my branche.
Job 29:20	My glory shall renue towarde me, and my bowe shall be restored in mine hand.
Job 29:21	Vnto me men gaue eare, and wayted, and helde their tongue at my counsell.
Job 29:22	After my wordes they replied not, and my talke dropped vpon them.
Job 29:23	And they wayted for me, as for the raine, and they opened their mouth as for the latter rayne.
Job 29:24	If I laughed on them, they beleeued it not: neither did they cause the light of my countenance to fall.
Job 29:25	I appoynted out their way, and did sit as chiefe, and dwelt as a King in the army, and like him that comforteth the mourners.
Job 30:1	Bvt now they that are yonger then I, mocke me: yea, they whose fathers I haue refused to set with the dogges of my flockes.
Job 30:2	For whereto shoulde the strength of their handes haue serued mee, seeing age perished in them?
Job 30:3	For pouertie and famine they were solitary, fleeing into the wildernes, which is darke, desolate and waste.
Job 30:4	They cut vp nettels by the bushes, and the iuniper rootes was their meate.
Job 30:5	They were chased forth from among men: they shouted at them, as at a theefe.
Job 30:6	Therfore they dwelt in the clefts of riuers, in the holes of the earth and rockes.
Job 30:7	They roared among the bushes, and vnder the thistles they gathered themselues.
Job 30:8	They were the children of fooles and the children of villaines, which were more vile then the earth.
Job 30:9	And now am I their song, and I am their talke.
Job 30:10	They abhorre me, and flee farre from mee, and spare not to spit in my face.
Job 30:11	Because that God hath loosed my corde and humbled mee, they haue loosed the bridle before me.
Job 30:12	The youth rise vp at my right hand: they haue pusht my feete, and haue trode on me as on the paths of their destruction.
Job 30:13	They haue destroyed my paths: they tooke pleasure at my calamitie, they had none helpe.
Job 30:14	They came as a great breach of waters, and vnder this calamitie they come on heapes.
Job 30:15	Feare is turned vpon mee: and they pursue my soule as the winde, and mine health passeth away as a cloude.
Job 30:16	Therefore my soule is nowe powred out vpon me, and the dayes of affliction haue taken holde on me.
Job 30:17	It pearceth my bones in the night, and my sinewes take no rest.
Job 30:18	For the great vehemencie is my garment changed, which compasseth me about as the colar of my coate.
Job 30:19	He hath cast me into the myre, and I am become like ashes and dust.
Job 30:20	Whe I cry vnto thee, thou doest not heare me, neither regardest me, when I stand vp.
Job 30:21	Thou turnest thy selfe cruelly against me, and art enemie vnto mee with the strength of thine hand.
Job 30:22	Thou takest me vp and causest mee to ride vpon the winde, and makest my strength to faile.
Job 30:23	Surely I knowe that thou wilt bring mee to death, and to the house appoynted for all the liuing.
Job 30:24	Doubtles none can stretch his hand vnto the graue, though they cry in his destruction.
Job 30:25	Did not I weepe with him that was in trouble? was not my soule in heauinesse for the poore?
Job 30:26	Yet when I looked for good, euill came vnto me: and when I waited for light, there came darkenesse.
Job 30:27	My bowels did boyle without rest: for the dayes of affliction are come vpon me.
Job 30:28	I went mourning without sunne: I stood vp in the congregation and cryed.
Job 30:29	I am a brother to the dragons, and a companion to the ostriches.
Job 30:30	My skinne is blacke vpon me, and my bones are burnt with heate.
Job 30:31	Therefore mine harpe is turned to mourning, and mine organs into the voyce of them that weepe.
Job 31:1	I made a couenant with mine eyes: why then should I thinke on a mayde?
Job 31:2	For what portion should I haue of God from aboue? and what inheritance of the Almightie from on hie?
Job 31:3	Is not destruction to the wicked and strange punishment to the workers of iniquitie?
Job 31:4	Doeth not he beholde my wayes and tell all my steps?
Job 31:5	If I haue walked in vanitie, or if my foote hath made haste to deceite,
Job 31:6	Let God weigh me in the iust balance, and he shall know mine vprightnes.
Job 31:7	If my steppe hath turned out of the way, or mine heart hath walked after mine eye, or if any blot hath cleaued to mine handes,
Job 31:8	Let me sowe, and let another eate: yea, let my plantes be rooted out.
Job 31:9	If mine heart hath bene deceiued by a woman, or if I haue layde wayte at the doore of my neighbour,
Job 31:10	Let my wife grinde vnto another man, and let other men bow downe vpon her:
Job 31:11	For this is a wickednes, and iniquitie to bee condemned:
Job 31:12	Yea, this is a fire that shall deuoure to destruction, and which shall roote out al mine increase,
Job 31:13	If I did contemne the iudgement of my seruant, and of my mayde, when they did contend with me,
Job 31:14	What then shall I do when God standeth vp? and when he shall visit me, what shall I answere?
Job 31:15	He that hath made me in the wombe, hath he not made him? hath not he alone facioned vs in the wombe?
Job 31:16	If I restrained the poore of their desire, or haue caused the eyes of the widow to faile,
Job 31:17	Or haue eaten my morsels alone, and the fatherles hath not eaten thereof,
Job 31:18	(For from my youth hee hath growen vp with me as with a father, and from my mothers wombe I haue bene a guide vnto her)
Job 31:19	If I haue seene any perish for want of clothing, or any poore without couering,
Job 31:20	If his loynes haue not blessed me, because he was warmed with the fleece of my sheepe,
Job 31:21	If I haue lift vp mine hande against the fatherlesse, when I saw that I might helpe him in the gate,
Job 31:22	Let mine arme fal from my shoulder, and mine arme be broken from the bone.
Job 31:23	For Gods punishment was fearefull vnto me, and I could not be deliuered from his highnes.
Job 31:24	If I made gold mine hope, or haue sayd to the wedge of golde, Thou art my confidence,
Job 31:25	If I reioyced because my substance was great, or because mine hand had gotten much,
Job 31:26	If I did behold the sunne, when it shined, or the moone, walking in her brightnes,
Job 31:27	If mine heart did flatter me in secrete, or if my mouth did kisse mine hand,
Job 31:28	(This also had bene an iniquitie to be condemned: for I had denied the God aboue)
Job 31:29	If I reioyced at his destruction that hated me, or was mooued to ioye when euill came vpon him,
Job 31:30	Neither haue I suffred my mouth to sinne, by wishing a curse vnto his soule.
Job 31:31	Did not the men of my Tabernacle say, Who shall giue vs of his flesh? we can not bee satisfied.
Job 31:32	The stranger did not lodge in the streete, but I opened my doores vnto him, that went by the way.
Job 31:33	If I haue hid my sinne, as Adam, concealing mine iniquitie in my bosome,
Job 31:34	Though I could haue made afraid a great multitude, yet the most contemptible of the families did feare me: so I kept silence, and went not out of the doore.
Job 31:35	Oh that I had some to heare me! beholde my signe that the Almightie will witnesse for me: though mine aduersary should write a booke against me,
Job 31:36	Woulde not I take it vpon my shoulder, and binde it as a crowne vnto me?
Job 31:37	I will tell him the nomber of my goings, and goe vnto him as to a prince.
Job 31:38	If my lande cry against me, or the furrowes thereof complayne together,
Job 31:39	If I haue eaten the fruites thereof without siluer: or if I haue grieued the soules of the masters thereof,
Job 31:40	Let thistles growe in steade of wheate, and cockle in the stead of Barley. The wordes of Iob are ended.
Job 32:1	So these three men ceased to answere Iob, because he esteemed himselfe iust.
Job 32:2	Then the wrath of Elihu the sonne of Barachel the Buzite, of the familie of Ram, was kindled: his wrath, I say, was kindled against Iob, because he iustified himselfe more then God.
Job 32:3	Also his anger was kindled against his three friends, because they could not finde an answere, and yet condemned Iob.
Job 32:4	(Now Elihu had wayted til Iob had spoken: for they were more ancient in yeeres then he)
Job 32:5	So when Elihu saw, that there was none answere in the mouth of the three men, his wrath was kindled.
Job 32:6	Therefore Elihu the sonne of Barachel, the Buzite answered, and sayd, I am yong in yeres, and ye are ancient: therefore I doubted, and was afraide to shewe you mine opinion.
Job 32:7	For I said, The dayes shall speake, and the multitude of yeeres shall teach wisedome.
Job 32:8	Surely there is a spirite in man, but the inspiration of the Almightie giueth vnderstanding.
Job 32:9	Great men are not alway wise, neither doe the aged alway vnderstand iudgement.
Job 32:10	Therefore I say, Heare me, and I will shew also mine opinion.
Job 32:11	Behold, I did waite vpon your wordes, and hearkened vnto your knowledge, whiles you sought out reasons.
Job 32:12	Yea, when I had considered you, lo, there was none of you that reproued Iob, nor answered his wordes:
Job 32:13	Lest ye should say, We haue found wisedome: for God hath cast him downe, and no man.
Job 32:14	Yet hath he not directed his words to me, neyther will I answere him by your wordes.
Job 32:15	Then they fearing, answered no more, but left off their talke.
Job 32:16	When I had wayted (for they spake not, but stood still and answered no more)
Job 32:17	Then answered I in my turne, and I shewed mine opinion.
Job 32:18	For I am full of matter, and the spirite within me compelleth me.
Job 32:19	Beholde, my belly is as the wine, which hath no vent, and like the new bottels that brast.
Job 32:20	Therefore will I speake, that I may take breath: I will open my lippes, and will answere.
Job 32:21	I will not now accept the person of man, neyther will I giue titles to man.
Job 32:22	For I may not giue titles, lest my Maker should take me away suddenly.
Job 33:1	Wherefore, Iob, I pray thee, heare my talke and hearken vnto all my wordes.
Job 33:2	Beholde now, I haue opened my mouth: my tongue hath spoken in my mouth.
Job 33:3	My words are in the vprightnesse of mine heart, and my lippes shall speake pure knowledge.
Job 33:4	The Spirite of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almightie hath giuen me life.
Job 33:5	If thou canst giue me answere, prepare thy selfe and stand before me.
Job 33:6	Beholde, I am according to thy wish in Gods stead: I am also formed of the clay.
Job 33:7	Beholde, my terrour shall not feare thee, neither shall mine hand be heauie vpon thee.
Job 33:8	Doubtles thou hast spoken in mine eares, and I haue heard the voyce of thy wordes.
Job 33:9	I am cleane, without sinne: I am innocent, and there is none iniquitie in me.
Job 33:10	Lo, he hath found occasions against me, and counted me for his enemie.
Job 33:11	He hath put my feete in the stockes, and looketh narrowly vnto all my paths.
Job 33:12	Behold, in this hast thou not done right: I will answere thee, that God is greater then man.
Job 33:13	Why doest thou striue against him? for he doeth not giue account of all his matters.
Job 33:14	For God speaketh once or twise, and one seeth it not.
Job 33:15	In dreames and visions of the night, when sleepe falleth vpon men, and they sleepe vpon their beds,
Job 33:16	Then he openeth the eares of men, euen by their corrections, which he had sealed,
Job 33:17	That he might cause man to turne away from his enterprise, and that he might hide the pride of man,
Job 33:18	And keepe backe his soule from the pit, and that his life should not passe by the sword.
Job 33:19	He is also striken with sorow vpon his bed, and the griefe of his bones is sore,
Job 33:20	So that his life causeth him to abhorre bread, and his soule daintie meate.
Job 33:21	His flesh faileth that it can not be seene, and his bones which were not seene, clatter.
Job 33:22	So his soule draweth to the graue, and his life to the buriers.
Job 33:23	If there be a messenger with him, or an interpreter, one of a thousand to declare vnto man his righteousnesse,
Job 33:24	Then will he haue mercie vpon him, and will say, Deliuer him, that he go not downe into the pit: for I haue receiued a reconciliation.
Job 33:25	Then shall his flesh be as fresh as a childes, and shall returne as in the dayes of his youth.
Job 33:26	He shall pray vnto God, and he will be fauourable vnto him, and he shall see his face with ioy: for he will render vnto man his righteousnes.
Job 33:27	He looketh vpon men, and if one say, I haue sinned, and peruerted righteousnesse, and it did not profite me,
Job 33:28	He will deliuer his soule from going into the pit, and his life shall see the light.
Job 33:29	Lo, all these things will God worke twise or thrise with a man,
Job 33:30	That he may turne backe his soule from the pit, to be illuminate in the light of the liuing.
Job 33:31	Marke well, O Iob, and heare me: keepe silence, and I will speake.
Job 33:32	If there be matter, answere me, and speak: for I desire to iustifie thee.
Job 33:33	If thou hast not, heare me: holde thy tongue, and I will teach thee wisedome.
Job 34:1	Moreouer Elihu answered, and saide,
Job 34:2	Heare my wordes, ye wise men, and hearken vnto me, ye that haue knowledge.
Job 34:3	For the eare tryeth the words, as the mouth tasteth meate.
Job 34:4	Let vs seeke iudgement among vs, and let vs knowe among our selues what is good.
Job 34:5	For Iob hath saide, I am righteous, and God hath taken away my iudgement.
Job 34:6	Should I lye in my right? my wound of the arrowe is grieuous without my sinne.
Job 34:7	What man is like Iob, that drinketh scornfulnesse like water?
Job 34:8	Which goeth in the companie of them that worke iniquitie, and walketh with wicked men?
Job 34:9	For he hath saide, It profiteth a man nothing that he should walke with God.
Job 34:10	Therefore hearken vnto me, ye men of wisedome, God forbid that wickednesse should be in God, and iniquitie in the Almightie.
Job 34:11	For he will render vnto man according to his worke, and cause euery one to finde according to his way.
Job 34:12	And certainely God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almightie peruert iudgement.
Job 34:13	Whome hath he appointed ouer the earth beside him selfe? or who hath placed the whole worlde?
Job 34:14	If he set his heart vpon man, and gather vnto him selfe his spirit and his breath,
Job 34:15	All flesh shall perish together, and man shall returne vnto dust.
Job 34:16	And if thou hast vnderstanding, heare this and hearken to the voyce of my wordes.
Job 34:17	Shal he that hateth iudgement, gouerne? and wilt thou iudge him wicked that is most iust?
Job 34:18	Wilt thou say vnto a King, Thou art wicked? or to princes, Ye are vngodly?
Job 34:19	How much lesse to him that accepteth not the persons of princes, and regardeth not the rich, more then the poore? for they be all the worke of his handes.
Job 34:20	They shall die suddenly, and the people shalbe troubled at midnight, and they shall passe foorth and take away the mightie without hand.
Job 34:21	For his eyes are vpon the wayes of man, and he seeth all his goings.
Job 34:22	There is no darkenesse nor shadowe of death, that the workers of iniquitie might be hid therein.
Job 34:23	For he will not lay on man so much, that he should enter into iudgement with God.
Job 34:24	He shall breake the mightie without seeking, and shall set vp other in their stead.
Job 34:25	Therefore shall he declare their works: he shall turne the night, and they shalbe destroyed.
Job 34:26	He striketh them as wicked men in the places of the seers,
Job 34:27	Because they haue turned backe from him, and would not consider all his wayes:
Job 34:28	So that they haue caused the voyce of the poore to come vnto him, and he hath heard the cry of the afflicted.
Job 34:29	And when he giueth quietnesse, who can make trouble? and when he hideth his face, who can beholde him, whether it be vpon nations, or vpon a man onely?
Job 34:30	Because the hypocrite doeth reigne, and because the people are snared.
Job 34:31	Surely it appertaineth vnto God to say, I haue pardoned, I will not destroy.
Job 34:32	But if I see not, teach thou me: if I haue done wickedly, I will doe no more.
Job 34:33	Wil he performe the thing through thee? for thou hast reproued it, because that thou hast chosen, and not I. now speake what thou knowest.
Job 34:34	Let men of vnderstanding tell me, and let a wise man hearken vnto me.
Job 34:35	Iob hath not spoken of knowledge, neyther were his wordes according to wisedome.
Job 34:36	I desire that Iob may be tryed, vnto the ende touching the answeres for wicked men.
Job 34:37	For he addeth rebellion vnto his sinne: he clappeth his handes among vs, and multiplieth his wordes against God.
Job 35:1	Elihu spake moreouer, and said,
Job 35:2	Thinkest thou this right, that thou hast said, I am more righteous then God?
Job 35:3	For thou hast said, What profiteth it thee and what auaileth it me, to purge me from my sinne?
Job 35:4	Therefore will I answere thee, and thy companions with thee.
Job 35:5	Looke vnto the heauen, and see and behold the cloudes which are hyer then thou.
Job 35:6	If thou sinnest, what doest thou against him, yea, when thy sinnes be many, what doest thou vnto him?
Job 35:7	If thou be righteous, what giuest thou vnto him? or what receiueth he at thine hand?
Job 35:8	Thy wickednesse may hurt a man as thou art: and thy righteousnes may profite ye sonne of man.
Job 35:9	They cause many that are oppressed, to crye, which crye out for ye violence of the mightie.
Job 35:10	But none saieth, Where is God that made me, which giueth songs in the nyght?
Job 35:11	Which teacheth vs more then the beastes of the earth, and giueth vs more wisdome then the foules of the heauen.
Job 35:12	Then they crye because of the violence of the wicked, but he answereth not.
Job 35:13	Surely God will not heare vanitie, neyther will the Almightie regard it.
Job 35:14	Although thou sayest to God, Thou wilt not regard it, yet iudgement is before him: trust thou in him.
Job 35:15	But nowe because his anger hath not visited, nor called to count the euill with great extremitie,
Job 35:16	Therfore Iob openeth his mouth in vaine, and multiplieth wordes without knowledge.
Job 36:1	Elihu also proceeded and sayde,
Job 36:2	Suffer me a litle, and I will instruct thee: for I haue yet to speake on Gods behalfe.
Job 36:3	I will fetche my knowledge afarre off, and will attribute righteousnes vnto my Maker.
Job 36:4	For truely my wordes shall not be false, and he that is perfect in knowledge, speaketh with thee.
Job 36:5	Behold, the mighty God casteth away none that is mighty and valiant of courage.
Job 36:6	He mainteineth not the wicked, but he giueth iudgement to the afflicted.
Job 36:7	He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous, but they are with Kings in ye throne, where he placeth them for euer: thus they are exalted.
Job 36:8	And if they bee bound in fetters and tyed with the cordes of affliction,
Job 36:9	Then will he shewe them their worke and their sinnes, because they haue bene proude.
Job 36:10	He openeth also their eare to discipline, and commandeth them that they returne from iniquity.
Job 36:11	If they obey and serue him, they shall end their dayes in prosperity, and their yeres in pleasures.
Job 36:12	But if they wil not obey, they shall passe by the sworde, and perish without knowledge.
Job 36:13	But the hypocrites of heart increase the wrath: for they call not when he bindeth them.
Job 36:14	Their soule dyeth in youth, and their life among the whoremongers.
Job 36:15	He deliuereth the poore in his affliction, and openeth their eare in trouble.
Job 36:16	Euen so woulde he haue taken thee out of the streight place into a broade place and not shut vp beneath: and that which resteth vpon thy table, had bene full of fat.
Job 36:17	But thou art ful of the iudgement of the wicked, though iudgement and equitie maintaine all things.
Job 36:18	For Gods wrath is, least hee should take that away in thine abundance: for no multitude of giftes can deliuer thee.
Job 36:19	Wil he regard thy riches? he regardeth not golde, nor all them that excel in strength.
Job 36:20	Be not carefull in the night, howe he destroyeth the people out of their place.
Job 36:21	Take thou heede: looke not to iniquitie: for thou hast chosen it rather then affliction.
Job 36:22	Beholde, God exalteth by his power: what teacher is like him?
Job 36:23	Who hath appointed to him his way? or who can say, Thou hast done wickedly?
Job 36:24	Remember that thou magnifie his worke, which men behold.
Job 36:25	All men see it, and men beholde it afarre off.
Job 36:26	Beholde, God is excellent, and we knowe him not, neither can the nomber of his yeres bee searched out.
Job 36:27	When he restraineth the droppes of water, the rayne powreth down by the vapour thereof,
Job 36:28	Which raine the cloudes do droppe and let fall abundantly vpon man.
Job 36:29	Who can know the diuisions of ye clouds and the thunders of his tabernacle?
Job 36:30	Beholde, he spreadeth his light vpon it, and couereth the bottome of the sea.
Job 36:31	For thereby hee iudgeth the people, and giueth meate abundantly.
Job 36:32	He couereth the light with the clouds, and commandeth them to go against it.
Job 36:33	His companion sheweth him thereof, and there is anger in rising vp.
Job 37:1	At this also mine heart is astonied, and is mooued out of his place.
Job 37:2	Heare the sound of his voyce, and the noyse that goeth out of his mouth.
Job 37:3	He directeth it vnder the whole heauen, and his light vnto the endes of the world.
Job 37:4	After it a noyse soundeth: hee thundereth with the voyce of his maiestie, and hee will not stay them when his voyce is heard.
Job 37:5	God thundereth marueilously with his voyce: he worketh great things, which we know not.
Job 37:6	For he sayth to the snowe, Be thou vpon the earth: likewise to the small rayne and to the great rayne of his power.
Job 37:7	With the force thereof he shutteth vp euery man, that all men may knowe his worke.
Job 37:8	Then the beastes go into the denne, and remaine in their places.
Job 37:9	The whirlewind commeth out of the South, and the colde from the North winde.
Job 37:10	At the breath of God the frost is giuen, and the breadth of the waters is made narrowe.
Job 37:11	He maketh also the cloudes to labour, to water the earth, and scattereth the cloude of his light.
Job 37:12	And it is turned about by his gouernment, that they may doe whatsoeuer he commandeth them vpon the whole worlde:
Job 37:13	Whether it be for punishment, or for his lande, or of mercie, he causeth it to come.
Job 37:14	Hearken vnto this, O Iob: stand and consider the wonderous workes of God.
Job 37:15	Diddest thou knowe when God disposed them? and caused the light of his cloud to shine?
Job 37:16	Hast thou knowen the varietie of the cloude, and the wonderous workes of him, that is perfite in knowledge?
Job 37:17	Or howe thy clothes are warme, when he maketh the earth quiet through the South winde?
Job 37:18	Hast thou stretched out the heaues, which are strong, and as a molten glasse?
Job 37:19	Tell vs what we shall say vnto him: for we can not dispose our matter because of darknes.
Job 37:20	Shall it be told him when I speake? or shall man speake when he shalbe destroyed?
Job 37:21	And nowe men see not the light, which shineth in the cloudes, but the winde passeth and clenseth them.
Job 37:22	The brightnesse commeth out of the North: the praise thereof is to God, which is terrible.
Job 37:23	It is the Almightie: we can not finde him out: he is excellent in power and iudgement, and aboundant in iustice: he afflicteth not.
Job 37:24	Let men therefore feare him: for he will not regarde any that are wise in their owne conceit.
Job 38:1	Then answered the Lord vnto Iob out of the whirle winde, and said,
Job 38:2	Who is this that darkeneth the counsell by wordes without knowledge?
Job 38:3	Girde vp nowe thy loynes like a man: I will demande of thee and declare thou vnto me.
Job 38:4	Where wast thou when I layd the foundations of the earth? declare, if thou hast vnderstanding,
Job 38:5	Who hath layde the measures thereof, if thou knowest, or who hath stretched the line ouer it:
Job 38:6	Whereupon are the foundations thereof set: or who layed the corner stone thereof:
Job 38:7	When the starres of the morning praysed me together, and all the children of God reioyced:
Job 38:8	Or who hath shut vp the Sea with doores, when it yssued and came foorth as out of the wombe:
Job 38:9	When I made the cloudes as a couering thereof, and darkenesse as the swadeling bands thereof:
Job 38:10	When I stablished my commandement vpon it, and set barres and doores,
Job 38:11	And said, Hitherto shalt thou come, but no farther, and here shall it stay thy proude waues.
Job 38:12	Hast thou commanded the morning since thy dayes? hast thou caused the morning to knowe his place,
Job 38:13	That it might take hold of the corners of the earth, and that the wicked might be shaken out of it?
Job 38:14	It is turned as clay to facion, and all stand vp as a garment.
Job 38:15	And from the wicked their light shall be taken away, and the hie arme shalbe broken.
Job 38:16	Hast thou entred into the bottomes of the sea? or hast thou walked to seeke out the depth?
Job 38:17	Haue the gates of death bene opened vnto thee? or hast thou seene the gates of the shadowe of death?
Job 38:18	Hast thou perceiued the breadth of the earth? tell if thou knowest all this.
Job 38:19	Where is the way where light dwelleth? and where is the place of darkenesse,
Job 38:20	That thou shouldest receiue it in the boundes thereof, and that thou shouldest knowe the paths to the house thereof?
Job 38:21	Knewest thou it, because thou wast then borne, and because the nomber of thy dayes is great?
Job 38:22	Hast thou entred into the treasures of the snow? or hast thou seene the treasures of ye haile,
Job 38:23	Which I haue hid against the time of trouble, against the day of warre and battell?
Job 38:24	By what way is the light parted, which scattereth the East winde vpon the earth?
Job 38:25	Who hath deuided the spowtes for the raine? or the way for the lightning of ye thunders,
Job 38:26	To cause it to raine on the earth where no man is, and in the wildernes where there is no man?
Job 38:27	To fulfil the wilde and waste place, and to cause the bud of the herbe to spring forth?
Job 38:28	Who is the father of the rayne? or who hath begotten the droppes of the dewe?
Job 38:29	Out of whose wombe came the yee? who hath ingendred the frost of the heauen?
Job 38:30	The waters are hid as with a stone: and the face of the depth is frosen.
Job 38:31	Canst thou restraine the sweete influences of the Pleiades? or loose the bandes of Orion?
Job 38:32	Canst thou bring foorth Mazzaroth in their time? canst thou also guide Arcturus with his sonnes?
Job 38:33	Knowest thou the course of heauen, or canst thou set the rule thereof in the earth?
Job 38:34	Canst thou lift vp thy voice to the cloudes that the aboundance of water may couer thee?
Job 38:35	Canst thou sende the lightenings that they may walke, and say vnto thee, Loe, heere we are?
Job 38:36	Who hath put wisedome in the reines? or who hath giuen the heart vnderstanding?
Job 38:37	Who can nomber cloudes by wisedome? or who can cause to cease the bottels of heaue,
Job 38:38	When the earth groweth into hardnesse, and the clottes are fast together?
Job 39:1	Wilt thou hunt the pray for the lyon? or fill the appetite of the lyons whelpes,
Job 39:2	When they couch in their places, and remaine in the couert to lye in waite?
Job 39:3	Who prepareth for the rauen his meate, when his birdes crie vnto God, wandering for lacke of meate?
Job 39:4	Knowest thou the time when the wilde goates bring foorth yong? or doest thou marke when the hindes doe calue?
Job 39:5	Canst thou nomber the moneths that they fulfill? or knowest thou the time when they bring foorth?
Job 39:6	They bow them selues: they bruise their yong and cast out their sorowes.
Job 39:7	Yet their yong waxe fatte, and growe vp with corne: they goe foorth and returne not vnto them.
Job 39:8	Who hath set the wilde asse at libertie? or who hath loosed the bondes of the wilde asse?
Job 39:9	It is I which haue made the wildernesse his house, and the salt places his dwellings.
Job 39:10	He derideth the multitude of the citie: he heareth not the crie of the driuer.
Job 39:11	He seeketh out the mountaine for his pasture, and searcheth after euery greene thing.
Job 39:12	Will the vnicorne serue thee? or will he tary by thy cribbe?
Job 39:13	Canst thou binde the vnicorne with his band to labour in the furrowe? or will he plowe the valleyes after thee?
Job 39:14	Wilt thou trust in him, because his strength is great, and cast off thy labour vnto him?
Job 39:15	Wilt thou beleeue him, that he will bring home thy seede, and gather it vnto thy barne?
Job 39:16	Hast thou giuen the pleasant wings vnto the peacockes? or winges and feathers vnto the ostriche?
Job 39:17	Which leaueth his egges in the earth, and maketh them hote in the dust,
Job 39:18	And forgetteth that the foote might scatter the, or that the wild beast might breake the.
Job 39:19	He sheweth himselfe cruell vnto his yong ones, as they were not his, and is without feare, as if he trauailed in vaine.
Job 39:20	For God had depriued him of wisedom, and hath giuen him no part of vnderstanding.
Job 39:21	When time is, he mounteth on hie: he mocketh the horse and his rider.
Job 39:22	Hast thou giuen the horse strength? or couered his necke with neying?
Job 39:23	Hast thou made him afraid as the grashopper? his strong neying is fearefull.
Job 39:24	He diggeth in the valley, and reioyceth in his strength: he goeth foorth to meete the harnest man.
Job 39:25	He mocketh at feare, and is not afraid, and turneth not backe from the sworde,
Job 39:26	Though the quiuer rattle against him, the glittering speare and the shield.
Job 39:27	He swalloweth the ground for fearcenes and rage, and he beleeueth not that it is the noise of the trumpet.
Job 39:28	He sayth among the trumpets, Ha, ha: hee smellleth the battell afarre off, and the noyse of the captaines, and the shouting.
Job 39:29	Shall the hauke flie by thy wisedome, stretching out his wings toward the South?
Job 39:30	Doeth the eagle mount vp at thy commandement, or make his nest on hie?
Job 39:31	Shee abideth and remaineth in the rocke, euen vpon the toppe of the rocke, and the tower.
Job 39:32	From thence she spieth for meate, and her eyes beholde afarre off.
Job 39:33	His young ones also sucke vp blood: and where the slaine are, there is she.
Job 39:34	Moreouer ye Lord spake vnto Iob, and said,
Job 39:35	Is this to learne to striue with the Almightie? he that reprooueth God, let him answere to it.
Job 39:36	Then Iob answered the Lord, saying,
Job 39:37	Beholde, I am vile: what shall I answere thee? I will lay mine hand vpon my mouth.
Job 39:38	Once haue I spoken, but I will answere no more, yea twise, but I will proceede no further.
Job 40:1	Againe the Lord answered Iob out of the whirle winde, and said,
Job 40:2	Girde vp now thy loynes like a man: I will demaunde of thee, and declare thou vnto me.
Job 40:3	Wilt thou disanul my iudgement? or wilt thou condemne me, that thou mayst be iustified?
Job 40:4	Or hast thou an arme like God? or doest thou thunder with a voyce like him?
Job 40:5	Decke thy selfe now with maiestie and excellencie, and aray thy selfe with beautie and glory.
Job 40:6	Cast abroad the indignation of thy wrath, and beholde euery one that is proude, and abase him.
Job 40:7	Looke on euery one that is arrogant, and bring him lowe: and destroy the wicked in their place.
Job 40:8	Hide them in the dust together, and binde their faces in a secret place.
Job 40:9	Then will I confesse vnto thee also, that thy right hand can saue thee.
Job 40:10	Behold now Behemoth (whom I made with thee) which eateth grasse as an oxe.
Job 40:11	Behold now, his strength is in his loynes, and his force is in the nauil of his belly.
Job 40:12	When hee taketh pleasure, his taile is like a cedar: the sinews of his stones are wrapt together.
Job 40:13	His bones are like staues of brasse, and his small bones like staues of yron.
Job 40:14	He is the chiefe of the wayes of God: he that made him, will make his sworde to approch vnto him.
Job 40:15	Surely the mountaines bring him foorth grasse, where all the beastes of the fielde play.
Job 40:16	Lyeth hee vnder the trees in the couert of the reede and fennes?
Job 40:17	Can the trees couer him with their shadow? or can the willowes of the riuer compasse him about?
Job 40:18	Behold, he spoyleth the riuer, and hasteth not: he trusteth that he can draw vp Iorden into his mouth.
Job 40:19	Hee taketh it with his eyes, and thrusteth his nose through whatsoeuer meeteth him.
Job 40:20	Canst thou drawe out Liuiathan with an hooke, and with a line which thou shalt cast downe vnto his tongue?
Job 40:21	Canst thou cast an hooke into his nose? canst thou perce his iawes with an angle?
Job 40:22	Will he make many prayers vnto thee, or speake thee faire?
Job 40:23	Will hee make a couenant with thee? and wilt thou take him as a seruant for euer?
Job 40:24	Wilt thou play with him as with a bird? or wilt thou bynd him for thy maydes?
Job 40:25	Shall the companions baket with him? shall they deuide him among the marchants?
Job 40:26	Canst thou fill the basket with his skinne? or the fishpanier with his head?
Job 40:27	Lay thine hand vpon him: remember the battel, and do no more so.
Job 40:28	Behold, his hope is in vaine: for shall not one perish euen at the sight of him?
Job 41:1	None is so fearce that dare stirre him vp. Who is he then that can stand before me?
Job 41:2	Who hath preuented mee that I shoulde make an ende? Al vnder heauen is mine.
Job 41:3	I will not keepe silence concerning his partes, nor his power nor his comely proportion.
Job 41:4	Who can discouer the face of his garmet? or who shall come to him with a double bridle?
Job 41:5	Who shall open the doores of his face? his teeth are fearefull round about.
Job 41:6	The maiestie of his scales is like strog shields, and are sure sealed.
Job 41:7	One is set to another, that no winde can come betweene them.
Job 41:8	One is ioyned to another: they sticke together, that they cannot be sundered.
Job 41:9	His niesings make the light to shine, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning.
Job 41:10	Out of his mouth go lampes, and sparkes of fire leape out.
Job 41:11	Out of his nostrels commeth out smoke, as out of a boyling pot or caldron.
Job 41:12	His breath maketh the coales burne: for a flame goeth out of his mouth.
Job 41:13	In his necke remayneth strength, and labour is reiected before his face.
Job 41:14	The members of his bodie are ioyned: they are strong in themselues, and cannot be mooued.
Job 41:15	His heart is as strong as a stone, and as hard as the nether milstone.
Job 41:16	The mightie are afrayd of his maiestie, and for feare they faint in themselues.
Job 41:17	When the sword doeth touch him, he will not rise vp, nor for the speare, dart nor habergeon.
Job 41:18	He esteemeth yron as strawe, and brasse as rotten wood.
Job 41:19	The archer canot make him flee: ye stones of the sling are turned into stubble vnto him:
Job 41:20	The dartes are counted as strawe: and hee laugheth at the shaking of the speare.
Job 41:21	Sharpe stones are vnder him, and he spreadeth sharpe things vpon the myre.
Job 41:22	He maketh the depth to boyle like a pot, and maketh the sea like a pot of oyntment.
Job 41:23	He maketh a path to shine after him: one would thinke the depth as an hoare head.
Job 41:24	In the earth there is none like him: hee is made without feare.
Job 41:25	He beholdeth al hie things: he is a King ouer all the children of pride.
Job 42:1	Then Iob answered the Lord, and sayd,
Job 42:2	I knowe that thou canst doe all things, and that there is no thought hidde from thee.
Job 42:3	Who is hee that hideth counsell without knowledge? therefore haue I spoken that I vnderstood not, euen things too wonderfull for me, and which I knew not.
Job 42:4	Heare, I beseech thee, and I will speake: I will demaunde of thee, and declare thou vnto me.
Job 42:5	I haue heard of thee by the hearing of the eare, but now mine eye seeth thee.
Job 42:6	Therefore I abhorre my selfe, and repent in dust and ashes.
Job 42:7	Now after that the Lord had spoken these wordes vnto Iob, ye Lord also said vnto Eliphaz ye Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for yee haue not spoken of me the thing that is right, like my seruant Iob.
Job 42:8	Therefore take vnto you nowe seuen bullockes, and seuen rammes, and go to my seruant Iob, and offer vp for your selues a burnt offring, and my seruant Iob shall pray for you: for I wil accept him, least I should put you to shame, because ye haue not spoken of me the thing, which is right, like my seruant Iob.
Job 42:9	So Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according as the Lord had saide vnto them, and the Lord accepted Iob.
Job 42:10	Then the Lord turned the captiuitie of Iob, when he prayed for his friends: also the Lord gaue Iob twise so much as he had before.
Job 42:11	Then came vnto him all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all they that had bene of his acquaintance before, and did eate bread with him in his house, and had compassion of him, and comforted him for al the euil, that the Lord had brought vpon him, and euery man gaue him a piece of money, and euery one an earing of golde.
Job 42:12	So the Lord blessed the last dayes of Iob more then the first: for he had foureteene thousand sheepe, and sixe thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand shee asses.
Job 42:13	He had also seue sonnes, and three daughters.
Job 42:14	And he called the name of one Iemimah, and the name of the seconde Keziah, and the name of the third Keren-happuch.
Job 42:15	In all the lande were no women found so faire as the daughters of Iob, and their father gaue them inheritaunce among their brethren.
Job 42:16	And after this liued Iob an hundreth and fourtie yeres, and sawe his sonnes, and his sonnes sonnes, euen foure generations.
Job 42:17	So Iob dyed, being old, and full of dayes.

===== BOOK: Joel =====
Joel 1:1	The worde of the Lord that came to Ioel the sonne of Pethuel.
Joel 1:2	Heare ye this, O Elders, and hearken ye all inhabitantes of the land, whether such a thing hath bene in your dayes, or yet in the dayes of your fathers.
Joel 1:3	Tell you your children of it, and let your children shew to their children, and their children to another generation.
Joel 1:4	That which is left of ye palmer worme, hath the grashopper eaten, and the residue of ye grashopper hath the canker worme eaten, and the residue of the canker worme hath the caterpiller eaten.
Joel 1:5	Awake ye drunkards, and weepe, and howle all ye drinkers of wine, because of the newe wine: for it shalbe pulled from your mouth.
Joel 1:6	Yea, a nation commeth vpon my lande, mightie, and without nomber, whose teeth are like the teeth of a lyon, and he hath the iawes of a great lyon.
Joel 1:7	He maketh my vine waste, and pilleth off the barke of my figge tree: he maketh it bare, and casteth it downe: ye branches therof are made white.
Joel 1:8	Mourne like a virgine girded with sackcloth for the husband of her youth.
Joel 1:9	The meate offring, and the drinke offring is cut off from the House of the Lord: the Priests the Lords ministers mourne.
Joel 1:10	The fielde is wasted: the lande mourneth: for the corne is destroyed: the new wine is dried vp, and the oyle is decayed.
Joel 1:11	Be ye ashamed, O husband men: howle, O ye vine dressers for the wheate, and for the barly, because the haruest of the fielde is perished.
Joel 1:12	The vine is dried vp, and the figge tree is decayed: the pomegranate tree and the palme tree, and the apple tree, euen all the trees of the fielde are withered: surely the ioy is withered away from the sonnes of men.
Joel 1:13	Girde your selues and lament, ye Priests: howle ye ministers of the altar: come, and lie all night in sackecloth, ye ministers of my God: for the meate offring, and the drinke offring is taken away from the house of your God.
Joel 1:14	Sanctifie you a fast: call a solemne assemblie: gather the Elders, and all the inhabitants of the land into the House of the Lord your God, and cry vnto the Lord,
Joel 1:15	Alas: for the day, for the day of the Lord is at hand, and it commeth as a destruction from the Almightie.
Joel 1:16	Is not the meate cut off before our eyes? and ioy, and gladnesse from the house of our God?
Joel 1:17	The seede is rotten vnder their cloddes: the garners are destroyed: the barnes are broken downe, for the corne is withered.
Joel 1:18	How did the beasts mourne! the herdes of cattel pine away, because they haue no pasture, and the flockes of sheepe are destroyed.
Joel 1:19	O Lord, to thee will I crie: for the fire hath deuoured the pastures of the wildernesse, and the flame hath burnt vp all the trees of the fielde.
Joel 1:20	The beasts of the fielde cry also vnto thee: for the riuers of waters are dried vp, and the fire hath deuoured the pastures of the wildernes.
Joel 2:1	Blowe the trumpet in Zion, and shoute in mine holy mountaine: let all the inhabitants of the lande tremble: for the day of the Lord is come: for it is at hand.
Joel 2:2	A day of darkenesse, and of blacknesse, a day of cloudes, and obscuritie, as the morning spred vpon the mountaines, so is there a great people, and a mighty: there was none like it from the beginning, neither shalbe any more after it, vnto the yeeres of many generations.
Joel 2:3	A fire deuoureth before him, and behinde him a flame burneth vp: the land is as the garden of Eden before him, and behinde him a desolate wildernesse, so that nothing shall escape him.
Joel 2:4	The beholding of him is like the sight of horses, and like the horsemen, so shall they runne.
Joel 2:5	Like the noyse of charrets in the toppes of the mountaines shall they leape, like the noyse of a flame of fire that deuoureth the stubble, and as a mightie people prepared to the battel.
Joel 2:6	Before his face shall the people tremble: all faces shall gather blackenesse.
Joel 2:7	They shall runne like strong men, and goe vp to the wall like men of warre, and euery man shall goe forward in his wayes, and they shall not stay in their paths.
Joel 2:8	Neither shall one thrust another, but euery one shall walke in his path: and when they fall vpon the sword, they shall not be wounded.
Joel 2:9	They shall runne to and from in the citie: they shall runne vpon the wall: they shall clime vp vpon the houses, and enter in at ye windowes like ye thiefe.
Joel 2:10	The earth shall tremble before him, ye heauens shall shake, the sunne and the moone shalbe darke, and the starres shall withdraw their shining,
Joel 2:11	And the Lord shall vtter his voyce before his hoste: for his hoste is very great: for he is strog that doeth his word: for the day of the Lord is great and very terrible, and who can abide it?
Joel 2:12	Therefore also now the Lord sayth, Turne you vnto me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning,
Joel 2:13	And rent your heart, and not your clothes: and turne vnto the Lord your God, for he is gratious, and mercifull, slowe to anger, and of great kindnes, and repenteth him of the euill.
Joel 2:14	Who knoweth, is he wil returne and repent and leaue a blessing behinde him, euen a meate offring, and a drinke offring vnto ye Lord your God?
Joel 2:15	Blowe the trumpet in Zion, sanctifie a fast, call a solemne assembly.
Joel 2:16	Gather the people: sanctifie the congregation, gather the elders: assemble the children, and those that sucke the breastes: let the bridegrome go forth of his chamber, and the bride out of her bride chamber.
Joel 2:17	Let the Priestes, the ministers of the Lord weepe betweene the porch and the altar, and let them say, Spare thy people, O Lord, and giue not thine heritage into reproche that the heathen should rule ouer them. Wherefore should they say among the people, Where is their God?
Joel 2:18	Then will the Lord be ielous ouer his land, and spare his people.
Joel 2:19	Yea, the Lord wil answere and say vnto his people, Beholde, I will send you corne, and wine, and oyle, and you shalbe satisfied therewith: and I will no more make you a reproche among the heathen,
Joel 2:20	But I will remooue farre off from you the Northren armie, and I will driue him into a land, barren and desolate with his face toward the East sea, and his end to the vtmost sea, and his stinke shall come vp, and his corruption shall ascend, because he hath exalted himselfe to do this.
Joel 2:21	Feare not, O land, but be glad, and reioyce: for the Lord wil do great things.
Joel 2:22	Be not afrayde, ye beastes of the fielde: for the pastures of the wildernesse are greene: for the tree beareth her fruite: the figge tree and the vine do giue their force.
Joel 2:23	Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and reioyce in the Lord your God: for he hath giuen you the rayne of righteousnes, he wil cause to come downe for you the rayne, euen the first raine, and the latter raine in the first moneth.
Joel 2:24	And the barnes shalbe full of wheate, and the presses shall abound with wine and oyle.
Joel 2:25	And I will render you the yeeres that the grashopper hath eaten, the canker worme and the caterpiller and the palmer worme, my great hoste which I sent among you.
Joel 2:26	So you shall eate and be satisfied and praise the Name of the Lord your God, that hath dealt marueilously with you: and my people shall neuer be ashamed.
Joel 2:27	Ye shall also know, that I am in the middes of Israel, and that I am the Lord your God and none other, and my people shall neuer be ashamed.
Joel 2:28	And afterward will I powre out my Spirit vpon all flesh: and your sonnes and your daughters shall prophecie: your olde men shall dreame dreames, and your yong men shall see visions,
Joel 2:29	And also vpon the seruants, and vpon the maydes in those dayes wil I powre my Spirit.
Joel 2:30	And I will shewe wonders in the heauens and in the earth: blood and fire, and pillars of smoke.
Joel 2:31	The sunne shalbe turned into darkenesse, and the moone into blood, before the great and terrible day of the Lord come.
Joel 2:32	But whosoeuer shall call on the Name of the Lord, shalbe saued: for in mount Zion, and in Ierusale shalbe deliuerance, as the Lord hath said, and in the remnant, whom the Lord shall call.
Joel 3:1	For beholde, in those dayes and in that time, when I shall bring againe the captiuitie of Iudah and Ierusalem,
Joel 3:2	I will also gather all nations, and wil bring them downe into the valley of Iehoshaphat, and will pleade with them there for my people, and for mine heritage Israel, whom they haue scattered among the nations, and parted my land.
Joel 3:3	And they haue cast lottes for my people, and haue giuen the childe for the harlot, and sold the girle for wine, that they might drinke.
Joel 3:4	Yea, and what haue you to do with me, O Tyrus and Zidon and all the costes of Palestina? will ye render me a recompence? and if ye recompence mee, swiftly and speedily will I render your recompence vpon your head:
Joel 3:5	For ye haue taken my siluer and my golde, and haue caried into your temples my goodly and pleasant things.
Joel 3:6	The children also of Iudah and the children of Ierusalem haue you solde vnto the Grecians, that ye might send them farre from their border.
Joel 3:7	Beholde, I will rayse them out of the place where ye haue sold them, and will render your reward vpon your owne head,
Joel 3:8	And I will send your sonnes and your daughters into the hande of the children of Iudah, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, to a people farre off: for the Lord hath spoken it.
Joel 3:9	Publish this among the Gentiles: prepare warre, wake vp the mightie men: let all the men of warre drawe neere and come vp.
Joel 3:10	Breake your plowshares into swords, and your sithes into speares: let the weake say, I am strong.
Joel 3:11	Assemble your selues, and come all yee heathen and gather your selues together round about: there shall the Lord cast downe the mightie men.
Joel 3:12	Let the heathen be wakened, and come vp to the valley of Iehoshaphat: for there will I sit to iudge all the heathen round about.
Joel 3:13	Put in your sithes, for the haruest is ripe: come, get you downe, for the winepresse is full: yea, the winepresses runne ouer, for their wickednesse is great.
Joel 3:14	O multitude, O multitude, come into the valley of threshing: for the day of the Lord is neere in the valley of threshing.
Joel 3:15	The sunne and moone shalbe darkened, and the starres shall withdrawe their light.
Joel 3:16	The Lord also shall roare out of Zion, and vtter his voyce from Ierusalem, and the heauens and the earth shall shake, but the Lord wil be the hope of his people, and the strength of the children of Israel.
Joel 3:17	So shall ye know that I am the Lord your God dwelling in Zion, mine holy Mountaine: then shall Ierusalem bee holy, and there shall no strangers go thorowe her any more.
Joel 3:18	And in that day shall the mountaines drop downe newe wine, and the hilles shall flowe with milke, and al the riuers of Iudah shall runne with waters, and a fountaine shall come forth of the House of the Lord, and shall water the valley of Shittim.
Joel 3:19	Egypt shalbe waste, and Edom shall be a desolate wildernesse, for the iniuries of the childre of Iudah, because they haue shed innocent blood in their land.
Joel 3:20	But Iudah shall dwell for euer, and Ierusalem from generation to generation.
Joel 3:21	For I will clense their blood, that I haue not clensed, and the Lord will dwell in Zion.

===== BOOK: Jonah =====
Jonah 1:1	The worde of the Lord came also vnto Ionah the sonne of Amittai, saying,
Jonah 1:2	Arise, and goe to Nineueh, that great citie, and crye against it: for their wickednesse is come vp before mee.
Jonah 1:3	But Ionah rose vp to flee into Tarshish from the presence of the Lord, and went downe to Iapho: and he founde a ship going to Tarshish: so he payed the fare thereof, and went downe into it, that he might go with them vnto Tarshish, from the presence of the Lord.
Jonah 1:4	But the Lord sent out a great winde into the sea, and there was a mightie tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be broken.
Jonah 1:5	Then the mariners were afraide, and cryed euery man vnto his God, and cast the wares that were in the ship, into the sea to lighten it of the: but Ionah was gone downe into the sides of the ship, and he lay downe, and was fast a sleepe.
Jonah 1:6	So the shipmaster came to him, and saide vnto him, What meanest thou, O sleeper? Arise, call vpon thy God, if so be that God wil thinke vpon vs, that we perish not.
Jonah 1:7	And they saide euery one to his fellowe, Come, and let vs cast lottes, that we may know, for whose cause this euill is vpon vs. So they cast lottes, and the lot fell vpon Ionah.
Jonah 1:8	Then said they vnto him, Tell vs for whose cause this euill is vpon vs? what is thine occupation? and whence commest thou? which is thy countrey? and of what people art thou?
Jonah 1:9	And he answered them, I am an Ebrewe, and I feare the Lord God of heauen, which hath made the sea, and the dry lande.
Jonah 1:10	Then were the men exceedingly afrayde, and said vnto him, Why hast thou done this? (for the men knewe, that he fled from the presence of the Lord, because he had tolde them)
Jonah 1:11	Then saide they vnto him, What shall we doe vnto thee, that the sea may be calme vnto vs? (for the sea wrought and was troublous)
Jonah 1:12	And he said vnto them, Take me, and cast me into the sea: so shall the sea be calme vnto you: for I knowe that for my sake this great tempest is vpon you.
Jonah 1:13	Neuerthelesse, the men rowed to bring it to the lande, but they coulde not: for the sea wrought, and was troublous against them.
Jonah 1:14	Wherefore they cryed vnto the Lord, and said, We beseech thee, O Lord, we beseech thee, let vs not perish for this mans life, and lay not vpon vs innocent blood: for thou, O Lord, hast done, as it pleased thee.
Jonah 1:15	So they tooke vp Ionah, and cast him into the sea, and the sea ceased from her raging.
Jonah 1:16	Then the men feared the Lord exceedingly, and offered a sacrifice vnto the Lord, and made vowes.
Jonah 1:17	Nowe the Lord had prepared a great fish to swallowe vp Ionah: and Ionah was in the belly of the fish three dayes, and three nightes.
Jonah 2:1	Then Ionah prayed vnto the Lord his God out of the fishes belly,
Jonah 2:2	And said, I cryed in mine affliction vnto the Lord, and he heard me: out of the bellie of hell cryed I, and thou heardest my voyce.
Jonah 2:3	For thou haddest cast me into the bottome in the middes of the sea, and the floods compassed me about: all thy surges, and all thy waues passed ouer me.
Jonah 2:4	Then I saide, I am cast away out of thy sight: yet will I looke againe towarde thine holy Temple.
Jonah 2:5	The waters compassed me about vnto the soule: the depth closed me rounde about, and the weedes were wrapt about mine head.
Jonah 2:6	I went downe to the bottome of the moutaines: the earth with her barres was about me for euer, yet hast thou brought vp my life from the pit, O Lord my God.
Jonah 2:7	When my soule fainted within me, I remembred the Lord: and my prayer came vnto thee, into thine holy Temple.
Jonah 2:8	They that waite vpon lying vanities, forsake their owne mercie.
Jonah 2:9	But I will sacrifice vnto thee with the voice of thankesgiuing, and will pay that that I haue vowed: saluation is of the Lord.
Jonah 2:10	And the Lord spake vnto the fish, and it cast out Ionah vpon the dry lande.
Jonah 3:1	And the worde of the Lord came vnto Ionah the seconde time, saying,
Jonah 3:2	Arise, goe vnto Nineueh that great citie, and preach vnto it the preaching, which I bid thee.
Jonah 3:3	So Ionah arose and went to Nineueh according to ye word of the Lord: now Nineueh was a great and excellent citie of three dayes iourney.
Jonah 3:4	And Ionah began to enter into the citie a dayes iourney, and he cryed, and said, Yet fourtie dayes, and Nineueh shalbe ouerthrowen.
Jonah 3:5	So the people of Nineueh beleeued God, and proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth from ye greatest of the euen to the least of them.
Jonah 3:6	For worde came vnto the King of Nineueh, and he rose from his throne, and he layed his robe from him, and couered him with sackecloth, and sate in ashes.
Jonah 3:7	And he proclaimed and said through Nineueh, (by the counsell of ye king and his nobles) saying, Let neither man, nor beast, bullock nor sheep taste any thing, neither feed nor drinke water.
Jonah 3:8	But let man and beast put on sackecloth, and crie mightily vnto God: yea, let euery man turne from his euill way, and from the wickednesse that is in their handes.
Jonah 3:9	Who can tell if God will turne, and repent and turne away from his fierce wrath, that we perish not?
Jonah 3:10	And God sawe their workes that they turned from their euill wayes: and God repented of the euill that he had said that he woulde doe vnto them, and he did it not.
Jonah 4:1	Therefore it displeased Ionah exceedingly, and he was angry.
Jonah 4:2	And he prayed vnto the Lord, and saide, I pray thee, O Lord, was not this my saying, when I was yet in my countrey? therefore I preuented it to flee vnto Tarshish: for I knewe that thou art a gratious God, and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindnes, and repentest thee of the euill.
Jonah 4:3	Therefore nowe O Lord, take, I beseech thee, my life from me: for it is better for me to die then to liue.
Jonah 4:4	Then saide the Lord, Doest thou well to be angry?
Jonah 4:5	So Ionah went out of the citie and sate on the East side of the citie, and there made him a boothe, and sate vnder it in the shadowe till he might see what should be done in the citie.
Jonah 4:6	And the Lord God prepared a gourde, and made it to come vp ouer Ionah, that it might be a shadowe ouer his head and deliuer him from his griefe. So Ionah was exceeding glad of the gourde.
Jonah 4:7	But God prepared a worme when the morning rose the next day, and it smote the gourd, that it withered.
Jonah 4:8	And when the sunne did arise, God prepared also a feruent East winde: and the sunne beat vpon the head of Ionah, that he fainted, and wished in his heart to die, and said, It is better for me to dye, then to liue.
Jonah 4:9	And God said vnto Ionah, Doest thou well to be angrie for the gourde? And he said, I doe well to be angrie vnto the death.
Jonah 4:10	Then said the Lord, Thou hast had pitie on the gourde for the which thou hast not laboured, neither madest it growe, which came vp in a night, and perished in a night,
Jonah 4:11	And shoulde not I spare Nineueh that great citie, wherein are sixe score thousande persons, that cannot discerne betweene their right hand, and their left hand, and also much cattell?

===== BOOK: Joshua =====
Joshua 1:1	Nowe after the death of Moses the seruant of the Lord, the Lord spake vnto Ioshua the sonne of Nun, Moses minister, saying,
Joshua 1:2	Moses my seruant is dead: nowe therefore arise, go ouer this Iorden, thou, and all this people, vnto the lande which I giue them, that is, to ye children of Israel.
Joshua 1:3	Euery place that the sole of your foote shall treade vpon, haue I giuen you, as I said vnto Moses.
Joshua 1:4	From the wildernesse and this Lebanon euen vnto the great riuer, the riuer Perath: all the land of the Hittites, euen vnto the great Sea towarde the going downe of the sunne, shalbe your coast.
Joshua 1:5	There shall not a man be able to withstande thee all the dayes of thy life: as I was with Moses, so will I be with thee: I will not leaue thee, nor forsake thee.
Joshua 1:6	Be strong and of a good courage: for vnto this people shalt thou deuide the lande for an inheritance, which I sware vnto their fathers to giue them.
Joshua 1:7	Onely be thou strong, and of a most valiant courage, that thou mayest obserue and doe according to all the Lawe which Moses my seruant hath commanded thee: thou shalt not turne away from it to the right hande, nor to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoeuer thou goest.
Joshua 1:8	Let not this booke of the Law depart out of thy mouth, but meditate therin day and night, that thou mayest obserue and doe according to all that is written therein: for then shalt thou make thy way prosperous, and then shalt thou haue good successe.
Joshua 1:9	Haue not I commanded thee, saying, Be strong and of a good courage, feare not, nor be discouraged? for I the Lord thy God will be with thee, whithersoeuer thou goest.
Joshua 1:10	Then Ioshua commanded the officers of the people, saying,
Joshua 1:11	Passe through the hoste, and commande the people, saying, Prepare you vitailes: for after three dayes ye shall passe ouer this Iorden, to goe in to possesse the lande, which the Lord your God giueth you to possesse it.
Joshua 1:12	And vnto the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to halfe the tribe of Manasseh spake Ioshua, saying,
Joshua 1:13	Remember the worde, which Moses the seruant of the Lord commanded you, saying, The Lord your God hath giuen you rest, and hath giuen you this land.
Joshua 1:14	Your wiues, your children, and your cattell shall remaine in the land which Moses gaue you on this side Iorden: but ye shall goe ouer before your brethren armed, all that be men of warre, and shall helpe them,
Joshua 1:15	Vntill the Lord haue giuen your brethren rest, as well as to you, and vntill they also shall possesse the land, which the Lord your God giueth them: then shall ye returne vnto the lande of your possession and shall possesse it, which land Moses the Lordes seruant gaue you on this side Iorden toward the sunne rising.
Joshua 1:16	Then they answered Ioshua, saying, Al that thou hast commanded vs, we will doe, and whithersoeuer thou sendest vs, we will goe.
Joshua 1:17	As we obeyed Moses in all things, so will we obey thee: onely the Lord thy God be with thee, as he was with Moses.
Joshua 1:18	Whosoeuer shall rebell against thy commandement, and will not obey thy wordes in all that thou commaundest him, let him bee put to death: onely be strong and of good courage.
Joshua 2:1	Then Ioshua the sonne of Nun sent out of Shittim two men to spie secretly, saying, Go, view the land, and also Iericho: and they went, and came into an harlots house, named Rahab, and lodged there.
Joshua 2:2	Then report was made to the King of Iericho, saying, Beholde, there came men hither to night, of the children of Israel, to spie out the countrey.
Joshua 2:3	And the King of Iericho sent vnto Rahab, saying, Bring foorth the men that are come to thee, and which are entred into thine house: for they be come to search out all the land.
Joshua 2:4	(But ye woman had taken the two men, and hid them) Therefore saide she thus, There came men vnto me, but I wist not whence they were.
Joshua 2:5	And when they shut the gate in the darke, the men went out, whither the men went I wote not: follow ye after them quickly, for ye shall ouertake them.
Joshua 2:6	(But she had brought them vp to the roofe of the house, and hidde them with the stalkes of flaxe, which she had spread abroad vpon the roofe)
Joshua 2:7	And certaine men pursued after them, the way to Iorden, vnto the foordes, and as soone as they which pursued after them, were gone out, they shut the gate.
Joshua 2:8	And before they were a sleepe, she came vp vnto them vpon the roofe,
Joshua 2:9	And saide vnto the men, I knowe that the Lord hath giuen you the land, and that the feare of you is fallen vpon vs, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you.
Joshua 2:10	For we haue heard, howe the Lord dried vp the water of the redde Sea before you, when you came out of Egypt, and what you did vnto the two Kings of the Amorites, that were on the other side Iorden, vnto Sihon and to Og, whom ye vtterly destroyed:
Joshua 2:11	And when wee heard it, our heartes did faint, and there remained no more courage in any because of you: for the Lord your God, he is the God in heauen aboue, and in earth beneath.
Joshua 2:12	Now therefore, I pray you, sweare vnto me by the Lord; that as I haue shewed you mercie, ye will also shewe mercie vnto my fathers house, and giue me a true token,
Joshua 2:13	And that yee will saue aliue my father and my mother, and my brethren, and my sisters, and all that they haue: and that yee will deliuer our soules from death.
Joshua 2:14	And the men answered her, Our life for you to die, if ye vtter not this our businesse: and when the Lord hath giuen vs the lande, we will deale mercifully and truely with thee.
Joshua 2:15	Then she let them downe by a corde thorowe the windowe: for her house was vpon the towne wall, and she dwelt vpon the wall.
Joshua 2:16	And she said vnto them, Goe you into the mountaine, least the pursuers meete with you, and hide your selues there three dayes, vntill the pursuers be returned: then afterwarde may yee goe your way.
Joshua 2:17	And the men said vnto her, We will be blamelesse of this thine othe, which thou hast made vs sweare.
Joshua 2:18	Behold, when we come into the land, thou shalt bind this cord of red threde in the window, whereby thou lettest vs downe, and thou shalt bring thy father and thy mother, and thy brethren, and all thy fathers houshold home to thee.
Joshua 2:19	And whosoeuer then doeth goe out at the doores of thine house into the streete, his blood shalbe vpon his head, and we will be giltlesse: but whosoeuer shall be with thee in the house, his blood shalbe on our head, if any hande touch him:
Joshua 2:20	And if thou vtter this our matter, we will be quite of thine othe, which thou hast made vs sweare.
Joshua 2:21	And she answered, According vnto your wordes, so be it: then she sent them away, and they departed, and she bound the red cord in ye window.
Joshua 2:22	And they departed, and came into the mountaine, and there abode three dayes, vntil the pursuers were returned: and the pursuers sought them throughout all the way, but founde them not.
Joshua 2:23	So the two men returned, and descended from the mountaine, and passed ouer, and came to Ioshua the sonne of Nun, and tolde him all things that came vnto them.
Joshua 2:24	Also they saide vnto Ioshua, Surely the Lord hath deliuered into our handes all the lande: for euen all the inhabitants of the countrey faint because of vs.
Joshua 3:1	Then Ioshua rose very earely, and they remoued from Shittim, and came to Iorden, he, and all the children of Israel, and lodged there, before they went ouer.
Joshua 3:2	And after three dayes the officers went throughout the hoste,
Joshua 3:3	And commanded the people, saying, When ye see the Arke of the couenat of the Lord your God, and the Priestes of the Leuites bearing it, ye shall depart from your place, and goe after it.
Joshua 3:4	Yet there shalbe a space betweene you and it, about two thousande cubites by measure: ye shall not come neere vnto it, that ye may knowe the way, by the which ye shall goe: for ye haue not gone this way in times past.
Joshua 3:5	(Nowe Ioshua had saide vnto the people, Sanctifie your selues: for to morowe the Lord will doe wonders among you)
Joshua 3:6	Also Ioshua spake vnto the Priestes, saying, Take vp the Arke of the couenant, and goe ouer before the people: so they tooke vp the Arke of the couenant, and went before the people.
Joshua 3:7	Then the Lord saide vnto Ioshua, This day will I begin to magnifie thee in the sight of all Israel, which shall knowe, that as I was with Moses, so will I be with thee.
Joshua 3:8	Thou shalt therefore command the Priests that beare the Arke of the Couenant, saying, When ye are come to the brinke of the waters of Iorden, ye shall stande still in Iorden.
Joshua 3:9	Then Ioshua said vnto the children of Israel, Come hither, and heare the wordes of the Lord your God.
Joshua 3:10	And Ioshua said, Hereby ye shall know that the liuing God is among you, and that he will certainely cast out before you the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Hiuites, and the Perizzites, and the Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Iebusites.
Joshua 3:11	Beholde, the Arke of the couenant of the Lord of all the worlde passeth before you into Iorden.
Joshua 3:12	Nowe therefore take from among you twelue men out of the tribes of Israel, out of euery tribe a man.
Joshua 3:13	And assoone as the soles of the feete of the Priestes (that beare the Arke of the Lord God the Lord of all the worlde) shall stay in the waters of Iorden, the waters of Iorden shall be cut off: for the waters that come from aboue, shall stande still vpon an heape.
Joshua 3:14	Then when the people were departed from their tentes to goe ouer Iorden, the Priestes bearing the Arke of the Couenant, went before people.
Joshua 3:15	And as they that bare the Arke came vnto Iorden, and the feete of the Priestes that bare the Arke were dipped in the brinke of the water, (for Iorden vseth to fill all his bankes all the time of haruest)
Joshua 3:16	Then the waters that came downe from aboue, stayed and rose vpon an heape and departed farre from the citie of Adam, that was beside Zaretan: but the waters that came downe towarde the Sea of the wildernes, euen the salt Sea, failed, and were cut off: so the people went right ouer against Iericho.
Joshua 3:17	But the Priestes that bare the Arke of the couenant of the Lord, stoode drie within Iorden readie prepared, and all the Israelites went ouer dry, vntill all the people were gone cleane ouer through Iorden.
Joshua 4:1	And when all the people were wholy gone ouer Iorden, (after the Lord had spoken vnto Ioshua, saying,
Joshua 4:2	Take you twelue me out of the people, out of euery tribe a man,
Joshua 4:3	And command you them, saying, Take you hence out of the middes of Iorden, out of the place where the Priestes stoode in a readinesse, twelue stones, which ye shall take away with you, and leaue them in the lodging where you shall lodge this night)
Joshua 4:4	Then Ioshua called the twelue men, whome he had prepared of the children of Israel, out of euery tribe a man,
Joshua 4:5	And Ioshua said vnto them, Go ouer before the Arke of the Lord your God, euen through the middes of Iorden, and take vp euery man of you a stone vpon his shoulder according vnto the nomber of the tribes of the children of Israel,
Joshua 4:6	That this may bee a signe among you, that whe your children shall aske their fathers in time to come, saying, What meane you by these stones?
Joshua 4:7	Then ye may answere them, That the waters of Iorden were cut off before the Arke of the couenant of the Lord: for when it passed through Iorden, the waters of Iorden were cut off: therefore these stones are a memoriall vnto the children of Israel for euer.
Joshua 4:8	Then ye children of Israel did euen so as Ioshua had commanded, and tooke vp twelue stones out of the mids of Iorden as ye Lord had said vnto Ioshua, according to the nomber of the tribes of the children of Israel, and caried them away with them vnto the lodging, and layd them down there.
Joshua 4:9	And Ioshua set vp twelue stones in the middes of Iorden, in the place where the feete of the Priests, which bare the Arke of the couenant stood, and there haue they continued vnto this day.
Joshua 4:10	So the Priests, which bare ye Arke, stoode in the middes of Iorden, vntill euery thing was finished that ye Lord had comanded Ioshua to say vnto the people, according to all that Moses charged Ioshua: then the people hasted and went ouer.
Joshua 4:11	When all the people were cleane passed ouer, the Arke of the Lord went ouer also, and the Priests before the people.
Joshua 4:12	And the sonnes of Reuben, and the sonnes of Gad, and halfe the tribe of Manasseh went ouer before the children of Israel armed, as Moses had charged them.
Joshua 4:13	Euen fourty thousand prepared for warre, went before the Lord vnto battel, into ye plaine of Iericho.
Joshua 4:14	That day the Lord magnified Ioshua in the sight of all Israel, and they feared him, as they feared Moses all dayes of his life.
Joshua 4:15	And the Lord spake vnto Ioshua, saying,
Joshua 4:16	Commande the Priests that beare ye Arke of the testimonie, to come vp out of Iorden.
Joshua 4:17	Ioshua therefore commanded the Priests, saying, Come ye vp out of Iorden.
Joshua 4:18	And when the Priests that bare the Arke of the couenant of ye Lord were come vp out of the middes of Iorden, and assoone as the soles of the Priests feete were set on the dry land, the waters of Iorde returned vnto their place, and flowed ouer all the bankes thereof, as they did before.
Joshua 4:19	So the people came vp out of Iorden the tenth day of the first moneth, and pitched in Gilgal, in the Eastside of Iericho.
Joshua 4:20	Also the twelue stones, which they tooke out of Iorden, did Ioshua pitch in Gilgal.
Joshua 4:21	And he spake vnto ye childre of Israel, saying, When your children shall aske their fathers in time to come, and say, What meane these stones?
Joshua 4:22	Then ye shall shew your children, and say, Israel came ouer this Iorden on dry land:
Joshua 4:23	For the Lord your God dryed vp ye waters of Iorden before you, vntill ye were gone ouer, as the Lord your God did the red Sea, which hee dryed vp before vs, till we were gone ouer,
Joshua 4:24	That all the people of the worlde may know that the hand of the Lord is mightie, that ye might feare the Lord your God continually.
Joshua 5:1	Nowe when all the Kings of the Amorites, which were beyond Iorden Westward, and all the Kinges of the Canaanites which were by the Sea, heard that the Lord had dried vp the waters of Iorden before the children of Israel vntill they were gone ouer, their heart fainted: and there was no courage in them any more because of the children of Israel.
Joshua 5:2	That same time the Lord said vnto Ioshua, Make thee sharpe kniues, and returne, and circumcise the sonnes of Israel the second time.
Joshua 5:3	Then Ioshua made him sharpe kniues and circumcised the sonnes of Israel in the hill of the foreskinnes.
Joshua 5:4	And this is the cause why Ioshua circumcised all the people, euen the males that came out of Egypt, because all the men of warre were dead in the wildernesse by the way after they came out of Egypt.
Joshua 5:5	For all the people that came out were circumcised: but all the people that were borne in the wildernes by the way after they came out of Egypt, were not circumcised.
Joshua 5:6	For the children of Israel walked fourtie yeres in the wildernes, till all the people of the men of warre that came out of Egypt were consumed, because they obeyed not the voyce of the Lord: vnto whome the Lord sware, that he would not shewe them the lande, which the Lord had sworne vnto their fathers, that he would giue vs, euen a land that floweth with milke and hony.
Joshua 5:7	So their sonnes whome he raysed vp in their steade, Ioshua circumcised: for they were vncircumcised, because they circumcised them not by the way.
Joshua 5:8	And when they had made an ende of circumcising al the people, they abode in the places in the campe till they were whole.
Joshua 5:9	After, the Lord said vnto Ioshua, This day I haue taken away the shame of Egypt from you: wherefore he called the name of that place Gilgal, vnto this day.
Joshua 5:10	So the children of Israel abode in Gilgal, and kept ye feast of the Passeouer the fourteenth day of the moneth at euen in ye plaine of Iericho.
Joshua 5:11	And they did eat of the corne of the land, on the morow after the Passeouer, vnleauened breade, and parched corne in the same day.
Joshua 5:12	And the MAN ceased on the morowe after they had eaten of the corne of the land, neither had the children of Israel MAN any more, but did eate of the fruite of the land of Canaan that yeere.
Joshua 5:13	And when Ioshua was by Iericho, he lift vp his eyes and looked: and behold, there stood a man against him, hauing a sword drawen in his hand: and Ioshua went vnto him, and said vnto him, Art thou on our side, or on our aduersaries?
Joshua 5:14	And he said, Nay, but as a captaine of the host of the Lord am I nowe come: then Ioshua fel on his face to the earth, and did worship, and saide vnto him, What sayth my Lord vnto his seruant?
Joshua 5:15	And the captaine of ye Lords host said vnto Ioshua, Loose thy shoe of thy foote: for ye place wheron thou standest, is holy: and Ioshua did so.
Joshua 6:1	Now Iericho was shut vp, and closed, because of the children of Israel: none might go out nor enter in.
Joshua 6:2	And the Lord saide vnto Ioshua, Behold, I haue giuen into thine hand Iericho and the King thereof, and the strong men of warre.
Joshua 6:3	All ye therefore that be men of warre, shall compasse the citie, in going round about the citie once: thus shall you doe sixe dayes:
Joshua 6:4	And seuen Priests shall beare seuen trumpets of rams hornes before the Arke: and the seuenth day ye shall compasse the citie seuen times, and the Priests shall blow with the trumpets.
Joshua 6:5	And when they make a long blast with the rams horne, and ye heare the sound of the trumpet, al the people shall shoute with a great shoute: then shall the wall of the citie fall downe flat, and the people shall ascend vp, euery man streight before him.
Joshua 6:6	Then, Ioshua the sonne of Nun called the Priests and said vnto them, Take vp the Arke of the couenant, and let seuen Priests beare seuen trumpets of rams hornes before the Arke of the Lord.
Joshua 6:7	But he said vnto the people, Goe and compasse the citie: and let him that is armed, go forth before the Arke of the Lord.
Joshua 6:8	And when Ioshua had spoken vnto the people, the seuen Priestes bare the seuen trumpets of rams hornes, and went foorth before the Arke of the Lord, and blew with the trumpets, and the Arke of the couenant of ye Lord followed them.
Joshua 6:9	And the men of armes went before the Priestes, that blewe the trumpets: then the gathering hoste came after the Arke, as they went and blewe the trumpets.
Joshua 6:10	(Nowe Ioshua had commanded the people, saying, Ye shall nor shout, neither make any noyse with your voyce, neither shall a worde proceede out of your mouth, vntill the day that I say vnto you, Shout, then shall ye shoute)
Joshua 6:11	So the Arke of the Lord compassed the citie, and went about it once: then they returned into the hoaste, and lodged in the campe.
Joshua 6:12	And Ioshua rose early in the morning, and the Priestes bare the Arke of the Lord:
Joshua 6:13	Also seuen Priests bare seuen trumpets of rams hornes, and went before the Arke of the Lord, and going blewe with the trumpets: and the men of armes went before them, but the gathering hoste came after the Arke of the Lord, as they went and blewe the trumpets.
Joshua 6:14	And the second day they compassed the citie once, and returned into the host: thus they did sixe dayes.
Joshua 6:15	And when the seuenth day came, they rose early, euen with the dawning of the day, and compassed the citie after ye same maner seuen times: only that day they compassed the citie seuen times.
Joshua 6:16	And when the Priests had blowen ye trumpets the seuenth time, Ioshua said vnto ye people, Shoute: for the Lord hath giuen you the citie.
Joshua 6:17	And the citie shalbe an execrable thing, both it, and all that are therein, vnto the Lord: onely Rahab the harlot shall liue, shee, and all that are with her in the house: for shee hid the messengers that we sent.
Joshua 6:18	Notwithstanding, be ye ware of the execrable thing, lest ye make your selues execrable, and in taking of the execrable thing, make also the hoste of Israel execrable, and trouble it.
Joshua 6:19	But all siluer, and gold, and vessels of brasse, and yron shalbe consecrate vnto the Lord, and shall come into the Lordes treasury.
Joshua 6:20	So the people shouted, whe they had blowen trumpets: for when the people had heard the sound of the trumpet, they shouted with a great shoute: and the wall fel downe flat: so the people went vp into the citie, euery man streight before him: and they tooke the citie.
Joshua 6:21	And they vtterly destroyed all that was in the citie, both man and woman, yong, and olde, and oxe, and sheepe, and asse, with the edge of the sword.
Joshua 6:22	But Ioshua had said vnto the two men that had spied out the countrey, Go into the harlots house, and bring out thence the woman, and all that she hath, as ye sware to her.
Joshua 6:23	So the yong men that were spies, went in, and brought out Rahab, and her father, and her mother, and her brethren, and all that shee had: also they brought out all her familie, and put them without the host of Israel.
Joshua 6:24	After they burnt the citie with fire, and all that was therein: onely the siluer and the gold, and the vessels of brasse and yron, they put vnto the treasure of the house of the Lord.
Joshua 6:25	So Ioshua saued Rahab the harlot, and her fathers houshold, and all that shee had; and shee dwelt in Israel euen vnto this day, because shee had hid the messengers, which Ioshua sent to spie out Iericho.
Joshua 6:26	And Ioshua sware at that time, saying, Cursed be the man before ye Lord, that riseth vp, and buildeth this citie Iericho: hee shall lay the foundation thereof in his eldest sonne, and in his yongest sonne shall hee set vp the gates of it.
Joshua 6:27	So the Lord was with Ioshua, and he was famous through all the world.
Joshua 7:1	But the children of Israel committed a trespasse in the excommunicate thing: for Achan the sonne of Carmi, the sonne of Zabdi, the sonne of Zerah of the tribe of Iuda tooke of the excommunicate thing: wherfore the wrath of the Lord was kindled against the children of Israel.
Joshua 7:2	And Ioshua sent men from Iericho to Ai, which is beside Bethauen, on ye East side of Bethel, and spake vnto them, saying, Goe vp, and view the countrey. And ye men went vp, and viewed Ai,
Joshua 7:3	And returned to Ioshua, and saide vnto him, Let not al the people go vp, but let as it were two or three thousand men go vp, and smite Ai, and make not al the people to labour thither, for they are fewe.
Joshua 7:4	So there went vp thither of the people about three thousande men, and they fledde before the men of Ai.
Joshua 7:5	And the men of Ai smote of them vpon a thirtie and sixe men: for they chased them from before the gate vnto Shebarim, and smote them in the going downe: wherfore the heartes of the people melted away like water.
Joshua 7:6	Then Ioshua rent his clothes, and fell to the earth vpon his face before the Arke of the Lord, vntill the euentide, he, and the Elders of Israel, and put dust vpon their heads.
Joshua 7:7	And Ioshua said, Alas, O Lord God, wherefore hast thou brought this people ouer Iorden, to deliuer vs into the hande of the Amorites, and to destroye vs? would God we had bene content to dwell on the other side Iorden.
Joshua 7:8	Oh Lord, what shall I say, when Israel turne their backes before their enemies?
Joshua 7:9	For the Canaanites, and all the inhabitants of the land shall heare of it, and shall compasse vs, and destroy our name out of the earth: and what wilt thou doe vnto thy mightie Name?
Joshua 7:10	And the Lord said vnto Ioshua, Get thee vp: wherefore lyest thou thus vpon thy face?
Joshua 7:11	Israel hath sinned, and they haue transgressed my couenant, which I commanded them: for they haue euen taken of the excommunicate thing, and haue also stollen, and dissembled also, and haue put it euen with their owne stuffe.
Joshua 7:12	Therefore ye children of Israel cannot stand before their enemies, but haue turned their backes before their enemies, because they be execrable: neither will I bee with you any more, except ye destroy the excommunicate from among you.
Joshua 7:13	Vp therefore, sanctifie the people, and say, Sanctifie your selues against to morowe: for thus saith the Lord God of Israel, There is an execrable thing among you, O Israel, therefore ye cannot stand against your enemies, vntill ye haue put the execrable thing from among you.
Joshua 7:14	In the morning therefore ye shall come according to your tribes, and the tribe which the Lord taketh, shall come according to the families: and the familie which the Lord shall take, shall come by the housholds: and the houshold which the Lord shall take, shall come man by man.
Joshua 7:15	And he that is taken with the excommunicate thing, shall be burnt with fire, hee, and all that he hath, because he hath transgressed the couenant of the Lord, and because he hath wrought folly in Israel.
Joshua 7:16	So Ioshua rose vp earely in the morning and brought Israel by their tribes: and the tribe of Iudah was taken.
Joshua 7:17	And he brought the families of Iudah, and tooke the familie of the Zarhites, and he brought the familie of the Zarhites, man by man, and Zabdi was taken.
Joshua 7:18	And he brought his houshold, man by man, and Achan ye sonne of Carmi, the sonne of Zabdi, the sonne of Zerah of the tribe of Iudah was take.
Joshua 7:19	Then Ioshua said vnto Achan, My sonne, I beseech thee, giue glory to the Lord God of Israel, and make confession vnto him, and shewe me now what thou hast done: hide it not from me.
Joshua 7:20	And Achan answered Ioshua, and saide, In deede, I haue sinned against the Lord God of Israel, and thus, and thus haue I done.
Joshua 7:21	I sawe among the spoyle a goodly Babylonish garment, and two hundreth shekels of siluer, and a wedge of golde of fiftie shekels weight, and I coueted them, and tooke them: and behold, they lye hid in the earth in the mids of my tent, and the siluer vnder it.
Joshua 7:22	Then Ioshua sent messengers, which ran vnto the tent, and beholde, it was hid in his tent, and the siluer vnder it.
Joshua 7:23	Therefore they tooke them out of the tent, and brought them vnto Ioshua, and vnto all the children of Israel, and layd them before the Lord.
Joshua 7:24	Then Ioshua tooke Achan the sonne of Zerah, and the siluer, and the garment and the wedge of golde and his sonnes, and his daughters, and his oxen, and his asses, and his sheepe, and his tent, and all that hee had: and all Israel with him brought them vnto the valley of Achor.
Joshua 7:25	And Ioshua said, In as much as thou hast troubled vs, the Lord shall trouble thee this day: and all Israel threwe stones at him, and burned them with fire, and stoned them with stones.
Joshua 7:26	And they cast vpon him a great heape of stones vnto this day: and so the Lord turned from his fierce wrath: therefore hee called the name of that place, The valley of Achor, vnto this day.
Joshua 8:1	After, the Lord saide vnto Ioshua, Feare not, neither bee thou faint hearted: take all the men of warre with thee and arise, go vp to Ai: beholde, I haue giuen into thine hand the King of Ai, and his people, and his citie, and his land.
Joshua 8:2	And thou shalt doe to Ai and to the King thereof, as thou didst vnto Iericho and to the King thereof: neuerthelesse the spoyle thereof and the cattell thereof shall ye take vnto you for a praye: thou shalt lye in wait against the citie on the backside thereof.
Joshua 8:3	Then Ioshua arose, and all the men of warre to goe vp against Ai: and Ioshua chose out thirtie thousand strong men, and valiant, and sent them away by night.
Joshua 8:4	And he commanded them, saying, Behold, yee shall lye in waite against the citie on the backeside of the citie: goe not very farre from the citie, but be ye all in a readinesse.
Joshua 8:5	And I and all the people that are with me, will approche vnto the citie: and when they shall come out against vs, as they did at the first time, then will we flee before them.
Joshua 8:6	For they wil come out after vs, till we haue brought them out of the citie: for they will say, They flee before vs as at the first time: so we will flee before them.
Joshua 8:7	Then you shall rise vp from lying in waite and destroy the citie: for the Lord your God wil deliuer it into your hand.
Joshua 8:8	And when ye haue taken the citie, ye shall set it on fire: according to the commandement of the Lord shall ye do: behold, I haue charged you.
Joshua 8:9	Ioshua then sent them foorth, and they went to lye in waite, and abode betweene Beth-el and Ai, on the Westside of Ai: but Ioshua lodged that night among the people.
Joshua 8:10	And Ioshua rose vp early in the morning, and nombred the people: and he and the Elders of Israel went vp before the people against Ai.
Joshua 8:11	Also all the men of warre that were with him went vp and drewe neere, and came against the citie, and pitched on the Northside of Ai: and there was a valley betweene them and Ai.
Joshua 8:12	And hee tooke about fiue thousande men, and set them to lye in waite betweene Beth-el and Ai, on the Westside of the citie.
Joshua 8:13	And the people set all the hoste that was on the Northside against the citie, and the liers in waite on the West, against the citie: and Ioshua went the same night into the mids of the valley.
Joshua 8:14	And when the King of Ai sawe it, then the men of the citie hasted and rose vp earely, and went out against Israel to battell, hee and all his people at the time appointed, before the plaine: for he knew not that any lay in waite against him on the backeside of the citie.
Joshua 8:15	Then Ioshua and all Israel as beaten before them, fled by the way of the wildernes.
Joshua 8:16	And all the people of the citie were called together, to pursue after them: and they pursued after Ioshua, and were drawen away out of the city,
Joshua 8:17	So that there was not a man left in Ai, nor in Beth-el, that went not out after Israel: and they left the citie open, and pursued after Israel.
Joshua 8:18	Then the Lord said vnto Ioshua, Stretch out the speare that is in thine hande, towarde Ai: for I wil giue it into thine hand: and Ioshua stretched out the speare that hee had in his hand, toward the citie.
Joshua 8:19	And they that lay in wait, arose quickly out of their place, and ranne as soone as he had stretched out his hand, and they entred into the citie, and tooke it, and hasted, and set the citie on fire.
Joshua 8:20	And the men of Ai looked behinde them, and sawe it: for loe, the smoke of the citie ascended vp to heauen, and they had no power to flee this way or that way: for the people that fled to the wildernesse, turned backe vpon the pursuers.
Joshua 8:21	When Ioshua and all Israel sawe that they that lay in waite, had taken the citie, and that the smoke of the citie mounted vp, then they turned againe and slewe the men of Ai.
Joshua 8:22	Also the other issued out of the citie against them: so were they in the middes of Israel, these being on the one side, and the rest on the other side: and they slewe them, so that they let none of them remaine nor escape.
Joshua 8:23	And the King of Ai they tooke aliue, and brought him to Ioshua.
Joshua 8:24	And when Israel had made an ende of slaying all the inhabitants of Ai in the fielde, that is, in the wildernesse, where they chased them, and when they were all fallen on the edge of the sworde, vntill they were consumed, all the Israelites returned vnto Ai, and smote it with the edge of the sworde.
Joshua 8:25	And all that fell that day, both of men and women, were twelue thousande, euen all the men of Ai.
Joshua 8:26	For Ioshua drewe not his hande backe againe which he had stretched out with the speare, vntill hee had vtterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai.
Joshua 8:27	Onely the cattell and the spoyle of this citie, Israel tooke for a praye vnto themselues, according vnto the worde of the Lord, which hee commanded Ioshua.
Joshua 8:28	And Ioshua burnt Ai, and made it an heape for euer, and a wildernes vnto this day.
Joshua 8:29	And the King of Ai hee hanged on a tree, vnto the euening. And as soone as the sunne was down, Ioshua commanded that they should take his carkeis downe from the tree, and cast it at the entring of ye gate of the city, and lay thereon a great heape of stones, that remaineth vnto this day.
Joshua 8:30	Then Ioshua built an altar vnto the Lord God of Israel, in mount Ebal,
Joshua 8:31	As Moses the seruant of the Lord had commanded the children of Israel, as it is written in the booke of the Lawe of Moses, an altar of whole stone, ouer which no man had lift an yron: and they offered thereon burnt offrings vnto the Lord, and sacrificed peace offerings.
Joshua 8:32	Also he wrote there vpon the stones, a rehearsall of the Lawe of Moses, which he wrote in the presence of the children of Israel.
Joshua 8:33	And all Israel (and their Elders, and officers and their iudges stoode on this side of the Arke, and on that side, before the Priestes of the Leuites, which bare the Arke of the couenant of the Lord) as well the stranger, as he that is borne in the countrey: halfe of them were ouer against mount Gerizim, and halfe of them ouer against mount Ebal, as Moses the seruant of the Lord had commanded before, that they should blesse the people of Israel.
Joshua 8:34	Then afterwarde hee read all the wordes of the Lawe, the blessings and cursings, according to all that is written in the booke of the Lawe.
Joshua 8:35	There was not a worde of all that Moses had commanded, which Ioshua read not before all the Congregation of Israel, as well before the women and the children, as the stranger that was conuersant among them.
Joshua 9:1	And when all the Kings that were beyonde Iorden, in the mountaines and in the valleis, and by all the coastes of the great Sea ouer against Lebanon (as the Hittites, and the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hiuites, and the Iebusites) heard thereof,
Joshua 9:2	They gathered themselues together, to fight against Ioshua, and against Israel with one accord.
Joshua 9:3	But the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Ioshua had done vnto Iericho, and to Ai.
Joshua 9:4	And therefore they wrought craftily: for they went, and fayned themselues ambassadours, and tooke olde sackes vpon their asses, and olde bottels for wine, both rent and bound vp,
Joshua 9:5	And olde shoes and clouted vpon their feete: also the raiment vpon them was old, and all their prouision of bread was dried, and mouled.
Joshua 9:6	So they came vnto Ioshua into the hoste to Gilgal, and said vnto him, and vnto the men of Israel, Wee be come from a farre countrey: nowe therefore make a league with vs.
Joshua 9:7	Then the men of Israel said vnto the Hiuites, It may be that thou dwellest among vs, how then can I make a league with thee?
Joshua 9:8	And they said vnto Ioshua, We are thy seruants. Then Ioshua saide vnto them, Who are ye? and whence come ye?
Joshua 9:9	And they answered him, From a very farre countrey thy seruants are come for the Name of the Lord thy God: for we haue heard his fame and all that he hath done in Egypt,
Joshua 9:10	And all that he hath done to the two Kings of the Amorites that were beyonde Iorden, to Sihon King of Heshbon, and to Og King of Bashan, which were at Ashtaroth.
Joshua 9:11	Wherefore our elders, and all the inhabitants of our countrey spake to vs, saying, Take vitailes with you for the iourney, and go to meete them, and say vnto them, Wee are your seruants: now therefore make ye a league with vs.
Joshua 9:12	This our bread we tooke it hote with vs for vittailes out of our houses, the day we departed to come vnto you: but nowe beholde, it is dried, and it is mouled.
Joshua 9:13	Also these bottels of wine which we filled, were newe, and lo, they be rent, and these our garments and our shooes are olde, by reason of the exceeding great iourney.
Joshua 9:14	And the men accepted their tale concerning their vittailes, and counselled not with the mouth of the Lord.
Joshua 9:15	So Ioshua made peace with them, and made a league with them, that he would suffer them to liue: also the Princes of the Congregation sware vnto them.
Joshua 9:16	But at the end of three dayes, after they had made a league with them, they heard that they were their neighbours, and that they dwelt among them.
Joshua 9:17	And the children of Israel tooke their iourney, and came vnto their cities the third day, and their cities were Gibeon, and Chephirah, and Beeroth and Kiriath-iearim.
Joshua 9:18	And the children of Israel slewe them not, because the Princes of the Congregation had sworne vnto them by the Lord God of Israel: wherefore all the Congregation murmured against the Princes.
Joshua 9:19	Then all the Princes said vnto all the Congregation, We haue sworne vnto them by the Lord God of Israel: nowe therefore we may not touch them.
Joshua 9:20	But this we wil doe to them, and let them liue, least the wrath be vpon vs because of the othe which we sware vnto them.
Joshua 9:21	And the Princes sayd vnto them againe, Let them liue, but they shall hewe wood, and drawe water vnto all the Congregation, as the Princes appoint them.
Joshua 9:22	Ioshua then called them, and talked with them, and sayd, Wherefore haue ye beguiled vs, saying, We are very farre from you, when ye dwel among vs?
Joshua 9:23	Now therefore ye are cursed, and there shall none of you be freed from being bondmen, and hewers of wood, and drawers of water for the house of my God.
Joshua 9:24	And they answered Ioshua, and sayd, Because it was tolde thy seruants, that the Lord thy God had commanded his seruant Moses to giue you all the land, and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land out of your sight, therefore we were exceeding sore afraid for our liues at the presence of you, and haue done this thing:
Joshua 9:25	And beholde nowe, we are in thine hand: doe as it seemeth good and right in thine eyes to doe vnto vs.
Joshua 9:26	Euen so did he vnto them, and deliuered them out of the hand of the children of Israel, that they slewe them not.
Joshua 9:27	And Ioshua appointed them that same day to be hewers of wood, and drawers of water for the Congregation, and for the altar of the Lord vnto this day, in the place which he should chuse.
Joshua 10:1	Now when Adoni-zedek King of Ierusalem had heard how Ioshua had taken Ai and had destroyed it, (for as he had done to Iericho and to the King thereof, so he had done to Ai and to the King thereof) and howe the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them,
Joshua 10:2	Then they feared exceedingly: for Gibeon was a great citie, as one of the royall cities: for it was greater then Ai, and all the men thereof were mightie.
Joshua 10:3	Wherefore Adoni-zedek King of Ierusalem sent vnto Hoham King of Hebron, and vnto Piram King of Iarmuth, and vnto Iapia King of Lachish, and vnto Debir King of Eglon, saying,
Joshua 10:4	Come vp vnto me, and helpe me, that we may smite Gibeon: for they haue made peace with Ioshua and with the children of Israel.
Joshua 10:5	Therefore the fiue Kings of the Amorites, the King of Ierusalem, the King of Hebron, the King of Iarmuth, the King of Lachish, and the King of Eglon gathered themselues together, and went vp, they with all their hostes, and besieged Gibeon, and made warre against it.
Joshua 10:6	And the men of Gibeon sent vnto Ioshua, euen to the hoste to Gilgal, saying, Withdrawe not thine hand from thy seruants: come vp to vs quickly, and saue vs, and helpe vs: for all the Kings of the Amorites which dwell in the mountaines, are gathered together against vs.
Joshua 10:7	So Ioshua ascended from Gilgal, he, and all the people of warre with him, and all the men of might.
Joshua 10:8	And the Lord sayd vnto Ioshua, Feare them not: for I haue giuen them into thine hand: none of them shall stand against thee.
Joshua 10:9	Ioshua therefore came vnto them suddenly: for he went vp from Gilgal all the night.
Joshua 10:10	And the Lord discomfited them before Israel, and slew them with a great slaughter at Gibeon, and chased them along the way that goeth vp to Beth-horon, and smote them to Azekah and to Makkedah.
Joshua 10:11	And as they fled from before Israel, and were in the going downe to Beth-horon, the Lord cast downe great stones from heauen vpon them, vntill Azekah, and they dyed: they were more that dyed with the hailestones, then they whom the children of Israel slewe with the sword.
Joshua 10:12	Then spake Ioshua to the Lord, in the day when the Lord gaue the Amorites before the children of Israel, and he sayd in the sight of Israel, Sunne, stay thou in Gibeon, and thou moone, in the valley of Aialon.
Joshua 10:13	And the Sunne abode, and the moone stood still, vntill the people auenged themselues vpon their enemies: (Is not this written in the booke of Iasher?) so the Sunne abode in the middes of the heauen, and hasted not to goe downe for a whole day.
Joshua 10:14	And there was no day like that before it, nor after it, that the Lord heard the voyce of a man: for the Lord fought for Israel.
Joshua 10:15	After, Ioshua returned, and all Israel with him vnto the campe to Gilgal:
Joshua 10:16	But the fiue Kings fled and were hid in a caue at Makkedah.
Joshua 10:17	And it was tolde Ioshua, saying, The fiue Kings are found hid in a caue at Makkedah.
Joshua 10:18	Then Ioshua said, Roule great stones vpon the mouth of the caue, and set men by it for to keepe them.
Joshua 10:19	But stand ye not still: follow after your enemies, and smite all the hindmost, suffer them not to enter into their cities: for the Lord your God hath giuen them into your hand.
Joshua 10:20	And when Ioshua and the children of Israel had made an ende of slaying them with an exceeding great slaughter till they were consumed, and the rest that remained of them were entred into walled cities,
Joshua 10:21	Then all the people returned to the campe, to Ioshua at Makkedah in peace: no man mooued his tongue against the children of Israel.
Joshua 10:22	After, Ioshua sayd, Open the mouth of the caue, and bring out these fiue Kings vnto me forth of the caue.
Joshua 10:23	And they did so, and brought out those fiue Kings vnto him forth of the caue, euen the King of Ierusalem, the King of Hebron, ye King of Iarmuth, the King of Lachish, and the King of Eglon.
Joshua 10:24	And when they had brought out those Kings vnto Ioshua, Ioshua called for all the men of Israel, and sayd vnto the chiefe of the men of warre, which went with him, Come neere, set your feete vpon the necks of these Kings: and they came neere and set their feete vpon their necks.
Joshua 10:25	And Ioshua sayd vnto them, Feare not, nor be faint hearted, but be strong and of a good courage: for thus will the Lord doe to all your enemies, against whome ye fight.
Joshua 10:26	So then Ioshua smote them, and slewe them, and hanged them on fiue trees, and they hanged still vpon the trees vntill the euening.
Joshua 10:27	And at the going downe of the sunne, Ioshua gaue commandement, that they should take them downe off the trees, and cast them into the caue (wherein they had bene hid) and they layde great stones vpon the caues mouth, which remaine vntill this day.
Joshua 10:28	And that same day Ioshua tooke Makkedah and smote it with the edge of the sword, and the King thereof destroyed he with them, and all the soules that were therein, he let none remaine: for hee did to the King of Makkedah as he had done vnto the King of Iericho.
Joshua 10:29	Then Ioshua went from Makkedah, and all Israel with him vnto Libnah, and fought against Libnah.
Joshua 10:30	And the Lord gaue it also and the King thereof into the hand of Israel: and he smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the soules that were therein: he let none remaine in it: for he did vnto the King thereof, as he had done vnto the King of Iericho.
Joshua 10:31	And Ioshua departed from Libnah, and all Israel with him vnto Lachish, and besieged it, and assaulted it.
Joshua 10:32	And the Lord gaue Lachish into the hand of Israel, which tooke it the second day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the soules that were therein, according to all as he had done to Libnah.
Joshua 10:33	Then Horam King of Gezer came vp to helpe Lachish: but Ioshua smote him and his people, vntill none of his remained.
Joshua 10:34	And from Lachish Ioshua departed vnto Eglon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged it, and assaulted it,
Joshua 10:35	And they tooke it the same day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the soules that were therein he vtterly destroyed the same day, according to all that he had done to Lachish.
Joshua 10:36	Then Ioshua went vp from Eglon, and all Israel with him vnto Hebron, and they fought against it.
Joshua 10:37	And when they had taken it, they smote it with the edge of the sword, and the King thereof, and all the cities thereof, and all the soules that were therein: he left none remaining, according to all as he had done to Eglon: for he destroyed it vtterly, and all the soules that were therein.
Joshua 10:38	So Ioshua returned, and all Israel with him to Debir, and fought against it.
Joshua 10:39	And when he had taken it, and the King thereof, and all the citie thereof, they smote them with the edge of the sword, and vtterly destroyed all the soules that were therein, he let none remaine: as he did to Hebron, so he did to Debir, and to the King thereof, as he had also done to Libnah, and to the King thereof.
Joshua 10:40	So Ioshua smote all the hill countreys, and the South countreys, and the valleys, and the hill sides, and all their Kings, and let none remaine, but vtterly destroyed euery soule, as the Lord God of Israel had commanded.
Joshua 10:41	And Ioshua smote them from Kadesh-barnea euen vnto Azzah, and all the countrey of Goshen, euen vnto Gibeon.
Joshua 10:42	And all these Kings, and their land did Ioshua take at one time, because the Lord God of Israel fought for Israel.
Joshua 10:43	Afterward, Ioshua and all Israel with him returned vnto the campe in Gilgal.
Joshua 11:1	And whe Iabin King of Hazor had heard this, then he sent to Iobab King of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph,
Joshua 11:2	And vnto the Kings that were by ye North in the mountaines and plaines toward the Southside of Cinneroth, and in the valleys, and in the borders of Dor Westward,
Joshua 11:3	And vnto the Canaanites, both by East, and by West, and vnto the Amorites, and Hittites, and Perizzites, and Iebusites in the mountaines, and vnto the Hiuites vnder Hermon in the land of Mizpeh.
Joshua 11:4	And they came out and all their hostes with them, many people as the sande that is on the sea shore for multitude, with horses and charets exceeding many.
Joshua 11:5	So all these Kings met together, and came and pitched together at the waters of Merom, for to fight against Israel.
Joshua 11:6	Then the Lord sayd vnto Ioshua, Be not afrayd for them: for to morowe about this time will I deliuer them all slaine before Israel: thou shalt hough their horses, and burne their charets with fire.
Joshua 11:7	Then came Ioshua and al the men of warre with him against them by the waters of Merom suddenly, and fell vpon them.
Joshua 11:8	And the Lord gaue them into the hand of Israel: and they smote them, and chased them vnto great Zidon, and vnto Misrephothmaim, and vnto the valley of Mizpeh Eastward, and smote them vntill they had none remaining of them.
Joshua 11:9	And Ioshua did vnto them as the Lord bade him: he houghed their horses, and burnt their charets with fire.
Joshua 11:10	At that time also Ioshua turned backe, and tooke Hazor, and smote the King thereof with the sword: for Hazor before time was the head of all those kingdomes.
Joshua 11:11	Moreouer, they smote all the persons that were therein with the edge of the sworde, vtterly destroying all, leauing none aliue, and hee burnt Hazor with fire.
Joshua 11:12	So all ye cities of those Kings, and all the kings of them did Ioshua take, and smote them with the edge of the sword, and vtterly destroyed them, as Moses the seruant of the Lord had commanded.
Joshua 11:13	But Israel burnt none of the cities that stoode still in their strength, saue Hazor onely, that Ioshua burnt.
Joshua 11:14	And all the spoyle of these cities and the cattel the children of Israel tooke for their praye, but they smote euery man with the edge of the sword vntill they had destroyed them, not leauing one aliue.
Joshua 11:15	As the Lord had commanded Moses his seruant, so did Moses commande Ioshua, and so did Ioshua: he left nothing vndone of all that the Lord had commanded Moses.
Joshua 11:16	So Ioshua tooke all this land of the mountaines, and all the South, and all the lande of Goshen, and the lowe countrey, and the plaine, and the mountaine of Israel, and the lowe countrey of the same,
Joshua 11:17	From the mount Halak, that goeth vp to Seir, euen vnto Baal-gad in the valley of Lebanon, vnder mount Hermon: and all their Kings he tooke, and smote them, and slewe them.
Joshua 11:18	Ioshua made warre long time with all those Kings,
Joshua 11:19	Neither was there any citie that made peace with the children of Israel, saue those Hiuites that inhabited Gibeon: all other they tooke by battell.
Joshua 11:20	For it came of the Lord, to harden their heartes that they shoulde come against Israel in battell to the intent that they shoulde destroye them vtterly, and shewe them no mercie, but that they shoulde bring them to nought: as the Lord had commanded Moses.
Joshua 11:21	And that same season came Ioshua, and destroyed the Anakims out of the mountaines: as out of Hebron, out of Debir, out of Anab, and out of all the mountaines of Iudah, and out of all the mountaines of Israel: Ioshua destroyed them vtterly with their cities.
Joshua 11:22	There was no Anakim left in the lande of the children of Israel: onely in Azzah, in Gath, and in Ashdod were they left.
Joshua 11:23	So Ioshua tooke the whole land, according to all that the Lord had saide vnto Moses: and Ioshua gaue it for an inheritance vnto Israel according to their portion through their tribes: then the land was at rest without warre.
Joshua 12:1	And these are the Kings of the land, which the children of Israel smote and possessed their land, on the other side Iorden toward the rising of the sunne, from the riuer Arnon, vnto mount Hermon, and all the plaine Eastward.
Joshua 12:2	Sihon King of the Amorites, that dwelt in Heshbon, hauing dominion from Aroer, which is beside the riuer of Arnon, and from the middle of the riuer, and from halfe Gilead vnto the riuer Iabbok, in the border of the children of Ammon.
Joshua 12:3	And from the plaine vnto the sea of Cinneroth Eastward, and vnto the Sea of the plaine, euen the salt sea Eastward, the way to Beth-ieshimoth, and from the South vnder the springs of Pisgah.
Joshua 12:4	They conquered also the coast of Og King of Bashan of the remnant of the gyants, which dwelt at Ashtaroth, and at Edrei,
Joshua 12:5	And reigned in mount Hermon, and in Salcah, and in all Bashan, vnto the border of the Geshurites, and the Maachathites, and halfe Gilead, euen the border of Sihon King of Heshbon.
Joshua 12:6	Moses the seruant of the Lord, and the children of Israel smote them: Moses also the seruant of the Lord gaue their land for a possession vnto the Reubenites, and vnto the Gadites, and to halfe the tribe of Manasseh.
Joshua 12:7	These also are the Kings of the countrey, which Ioshua and the children of Israel smote on this side Iorden, Westward, from Baal-gad in the valley of Lebanon, euen vnto the mount Halak that goeth vp to Seir, and Ioshua gaue it vnto the tribes of Israel for a possession, according to their portions:
Joshua 12:8	In the mountaines, and in the valleys, and in the plaines, and in the hill sides, and in the wildernes, and in the South, where were the Hittites, the Amorites, and the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hiuites, and the Iebusites.
Joshua 12:9	The King of Iericho was one: the King of Ai, which is beside Beth-el, one:
Joshua 12:10	The King of Ierusalem, one: the King of Hebron, one:
Joshua 12:11	The King of Iarmuth, one: the King of Lachish, one:
Joshua 12:12	The King of Eglon, one: the King of Gezer, one:
Joshua 12:13	The King of Debir, one: the King of Geder, one:
Joshua 12:14	The King of Hormah, one: the King of Arad, one:
Joshua 12:15	The King of Libnah, one: the King of Adullam, one:
Joshua 12:16	The King of Makkedah, one: the King of Beth-el, one:
Joshua 12:17	The King of Tappuah, one: the King of Hepher, one:
Joshua 12:18	The King of Aphek, one: the King of Lasharon, one:
Joshua 12:19	The King of Madon, one: the King of Hazor, one:
Joshua 12:20	The king of Shimron-meron, one: the King of Achshaph, one:
Joshua 12:21	The King of Taanach, one: the King of Megiddo, one:
Joshua 12:22	The King of Kedesh, one: the King of Iokneam of Carmel, one:
Joshua 12:23	The King of Dor, in the countrey of Dor, one: the King of the nations of Gilgal, one:
Joshua 12:24	The King of Tirzah, one. all the Kings were thirtie and one.
Joshua 13:1	Nowe when Ioshua was olde, and striken in yeeres, the Lord said vnto him, Thou art olde and growen in age, and there remaineth exceeding much land to be possessed:
Joshua 13:2	This is the land that remaineth, all the regions of the Philistims, and all Geshuri,
Joshua 13:3	From Nilus which is in Egypt, euen vnto the borders of Ekron Northward: this is counted of the Canaanites, euen fiue Lordships of the Philistims, the Azzithites, and the Ashdodites, the Eshkelonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites, and the Auites:
Joshua 13:4	From the South, all the land of the Canaanites, and the caue that is beside the Sidonians, vnto Aphek, and to the borders of the Amorites:
Joshua 13:5	And the land of the Giblites, and all Lebanon, toward the sunne rising from Bahal-gad vnder mount Hermon, vntil one come to Hamath.
Joshua 13:6	All the inhabitants of the mountaines from Lebanon vnto Misrephothmaim, and all the Sidonians, I wil cast them out from before the children of Israel: only deuide thou it by lot vnto the Israelites, to inherite, as I haue commanded thee.
Joshua 13:7	Nowe therefore deuide this lande to inherite, vnto the nine tribes, and to the halfe tribe of Manasseh.
Joshua 13:8	For with halfe therof the Reubenites and the Gadites haue receiued their inheritance, which Moses gaue them beyond Iorden Eastward, euen as Moses the seruant of the Lord had giuen them,
Joshua 13:9	From Aroer that is on the brinke of the riuer Arnon, and from the citie that is in the mids of the riuer, and all the plaine of Medeba vnto Dibon,
Joshua 13:10	And all the cities of Sihon King of the Amorites, which reigned in Heshbon, vnto the borders of the children of Ammon,
Joshua 13:11	And Gilead, and the borders of the Geshurites and of the Maachathites, and all mount Hermon, with all Bashan vnto Salcah:
Joshua 13:12	All the kingdome of Og in Bashan, which reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei: (who remained of the rest of the gyants) for these did Moses smite, and cast them out.
Joshua 13:13	But the children of Israel expelled not the Geshurites nor the Maachathites: but the Geshurites and the Maachathites dwell among the Israelites euen vnto this day.
Joshua 13:14	Onely vnto the tribe of Leui he gaue none inheritance, but the sacrifices of the Lord God of Israel are his inheritance, as he said vnto him.
Joshua 13:15	Moses then gaue vnto the tribe of the children of Reuben inheritance, according to their families.
Joshua 13:16	And their coast was from Aroer, that is on the brinke of the riuer Arnon, and from the citie that is in the middes of the riuer, and all the plaine which is by Medeba:
Joshua 13:17	Heshbon with all the cities thereof, that are in the plaine: Dibon and Bamoth-baal, and Bethbaal-meon:
Joshua 13:18	And Iahazah, and Kedemoth and Mephaath:
Joshua 13:19	Kiriathaim also, and Sibmah, and Zerethshahar in the mount of Emek:
Joshua 13:20	And Beth-peor, and Ashdoth-pisgah, and Beth-ieshimoth:
Joshua 13:21	And all the cities of the plaine: and all the kingdome of Sihon King of the Amorites, which reigned in Heshbon, whome Moses smote with the Princes of Midian, Eui, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the dukes of Sihon, dwelling in the countrey.
Joshua 13:22	And Balaam the sonne of Beor the soothsayer did the children of Israel slay with the sword, among them that were slaine.
Joshua 13:23	And the border of the children of Reuben was Iorden with the coastes. This was the inheritance of the children of Reuben according to their families, with the cities and their villages.
Joshua 13:24	Also Moses gaue inheritance vnto ye tribe of Gad, euen vnto the children of Gad according to their families.
Joshua 13:25	And their coastes were Iazer, and all the cities of Gilead and halfe the lande of the children of Ammon vnto Aroer, which is before Rabbah:
Joshua 13:26	And from Heshbon vnto Ramoth, Mizpeh, and Betonim: and from Mahanaim vnto the borders of Debir:
Joshua 13:27	And in the valley Beth-aram, and Bethnimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdome of Sihon King of Heshbon, vnto Iorden and the borders euen vnto the Sea coast of Cinneereth, beyond Iorden Eastward.
Joshua 13:28	This is the inheritance of the children of Gad, after their families, with the cities, and their villages.
Joshua 13:29	Also Moses gaue inheritance vnto the halfe tribe of Manasseh: and this belonged to the halfe tribe of the children of Manasseh according to their families.
Joshua 13:30	And their border was from Mahanaim, euen all Bashan, to wit, all the kingdome of Og King of Bashan, and all the townes of Iair which are in Bashan, threescore cities,
Joshua 13:31	And halfe Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were giuen vnto the children of Machir the sonne of Manasseh, to halfe of the children of Machir after their families.
Joshua 13:32	These are the heritages, which Moses did distribute in the plaine of Moab beyond Iorden, toward Iericho Eastward.
Joshua 13:33	But vnto the tribe of Leui Moses gaue none inheritance: for the Lord God of Israel is their inheritance, as he said vnto them.
Joshua 14:1	These also are the places which the children of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the Priest, and Ioshua the sonne of Nun and the chiefe fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed to them,
Joshua 14:2	By the lot of their inheritance, as the Lord had commanded by the hande of Moses, to giue to the nine tribes, and the halfe tribe.
Joshua 14:3	For Moses had giuen inheritance vnto two tribes and an halfe tribe, beyond Iorde: but vnto the Leuites he gaue none inheritance among them.
Joshua 14:4	For the childre of Ioseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim: therefore they gaue no part vnto the Leuites in the lande, saue cities to dwell in, with the suburbes of the same for their beastes and their substance.
Joshua 14:5	As the Lord had commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did when they deuided the land.
Joshua 14:6	Then the children of Iudah came vnto Ioshua in Gilgal: and Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh the Kenezite saide vnto him, Thou knowest what the Lord saide vnto Moses the man of God, concerning me and thee in Kadesh-barnea.
Joshua 14:7	Fourtie yeere olde was I, when Moses the seruant of the Lord sent me from Kadesh-barnea to espie the land, and I brought him word againe, as I thought in mine heart.
Joshua 14:8	But my brethren that went vp with me, discouraged the heart of the people: yet I followed still the Lord my God.
Joshua 14:9	Wherefore Moses sware the same day, saying, Certainely the land whereon thy feete haue troden, shalbe thine inheritance, and thy childrens for euer, because thou hast followed constantly the Lord my God.
Joshua 14:10	Therefore beholde nowe, the Lord hath kept me aliue, as he promised: this is the fourtie and fift yeere since the Lord spake this thing vnto Moses, while the children of Israel wandered in the wildernes: and nowe loe, I am this day foure score and fiue yeere olde:
Joshua 14:11	And yet am as strong at this time, as I was when Moses sent me: as strong as I was then, so strong am I nowe, either for warre, or for gouernment.
Joshua 14:12	Nowe therefore giue me this mountaine whereof ye Lord spake in that day (for thou heardest in that day, how the Anakims were there, and the cities great and walled) if so be the Lord will be with me, that I may driue them out, as the Lord said.
Joshua 14:13	Then Ioshua blessed him, and gaue vnto Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh, Hebron for an inheritance.
Joshua 14:14	Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh the Kenezite, vnto this day: because he followed constantly the Lord God of Israel.
Joshua 14:15	And the name of Hebron was before time, Kiriath-arba: which Arba was a great man amog the Anakims: thus the land ceassed from warre.
Joshua 15:1	This then was the lot of the tribe of the children of Iudah by their families: euen to the border of Edom and the wildernesse of Zin, Southward on the Southcoast.
Joshua 15:2	And their South border was the salt Sea coast, from the point that looketh Southward.
Joshua 15:3	And it went out on the Southside towarde Maaleth-akrabbim, and went along to Zin, and ascended vp on the Southside vnto Kadesh-barnea, and went along to Hezron, and went vp to Adar, and fet a compasse to Karkaa.
Joshua 15:4	From thence went it along to Azmon, and reached vnto the riuer of Egypt, and the end of that coast was on the Westside: this shall be your South coast.
Joshua 15:5	Also the Eastborder shalbe the salt Sea, vnto the end of Iorden: and the border on the North quarter from the point of the Sea, and from the end of Iorden.
Joshua 15:6	And this border goeth vp to Beth-hogla, and goeth along by ye Northside of Beth-arabah: so the border from thence goeth vp to the stone of Bohan the sonne of Reuben.
Joshua 15:7	Againe this border goeth vp to Debir from the valley of Achor, and Northwarde, turning toward Gilgal, that lyeth before the going vp to Adummim, which is on the Southside of the riuer: also this border goeth vp to the waters of En-shemesh, and endeth at En-rogel.
Joshua 15:8	Then this border goeth vp to the valley of the sonne of Hinnom; on the Southside of the Iebusites: the same is Ierusalem. also this border goeth vp to the top of the mountaine that lyeth before the valley of Hinnom Westward, which is by the end of the valley of ye gyants Northward.
Joshua 15:9	So this border compasseth from the top of the mountaine vnto the fountaine of the water of Nephtoah, and goeth out to the cities of mount Ephron: and this border draweth to Baalah, which is Kiriath-iearim.
Joshua 15:10	Then this border compasseth from Baalah Westward vnto mount Seir, and goeth along vnto the side of mount Iearim, which is Chesalon on the Northside: so it commeth downe to Bethshemesh, and goeth to Timnah.
Joshua 15:11	Also this border goeth out vnto the side of Ekron Northwarde: and this border draweth to Shicron, and goeth along to mount Baalah, and stretcheth vnto Iabneel: and the endes of this coast are to the Sea.
Joshua 15:12	And the Westborder is to the great Sea: so this border shalbe the bounds of the children of Iudah round about, according to their families.
Joshua 15:13	And vnto Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh did Ioshua giue a part among the children of Iudah, as the Lord commanded him, euen Kiriath-arba of the father of Anak, which is Hebron.
Joshua 15:14	And Caleb droue thence three sonnes of Anak, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, the sonnes of Anak.
Joshua 15:15	And he went vp thence to the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir before time was Kiriath-sepher.
Joshua 15:16	Then Caleb sayd, He that smiteth Kiriath-sepher, and taketh it, euen to him wil I giue Achsah my daughter to wife.
Joshua 15:17	And Othniel, the sonne of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb tooke it: and he gaue him Achsah his daughter to wife.
Joshua 15:18	And as she went in to him, she moued him, to aske of her father a fielde: and she lighted off her asse, and Caleb sayd vnto her, What wilt thou?
Joshua 15:19	Then she answered, Giue me a blessing: for thou hast giuen mee the South countrey: giue me also springs of water. And hee gaue her the springs aboue and the springs beneath.
Joshua 15:20	This shalbe the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Iudah according to their families.
Joshua 15:21	And the vtmost cities of the tribe of the children of Iudah, toward the coastes of Edom Southward were Kabzeel, and Eder, and Iagur,
Joshua 15:22	And Kinah, and Dimonah, and Adadah,
Joshua 15:23	And Kedesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan,
Joshua 15:24	Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth,
Joshua 15:25	And Hazor, Hadattah, and Kerioth, Hesron (which is Hazor)
Joshua 15:26	Amam, and Shema, and Moladah,
Joshua 15:27	And Hazar, Gaddah, and Heshmon, and Beth-palet,
Joshua 15:28	And Hasar-shual, and Beersheba, and Biziothiah,
Joshua 15:29	Baalah, and Iim, and Azem,
Joshua 15:30	And Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah,
Joshua 15:31	And Ziklag, and Madmanna, and Sansannah,
Joshua 15:32	And Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon: all these cities are twentie and nine with their villages.
Joshua 15:33	In the lowe countrey were Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah,
Joshua 15:34	And Zanoah, and En-gannim, Tappuah, and Enam,
Joshua 15:35	Iarmuth, and Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah,
Joshua 15:36	And Sharaim, and Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederothaim: fourteene cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:37	Zenam, and Hadashah, and Migdal-gad,
Joshua 15:38	And Dileam, and Mizpeh, and Ioktheel,
Joshua 15:39	Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon,
Joshua 15:40	And Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Kithlish,
Joshua 15:41	And Gederoth, Beth-dagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah: sixteene cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:42	Lebnah, and Ether, and Ashan,
Joshua 15:43	And Iipthtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib,
Joshua 15:44	And Keilah, and Aczib, and Mareshah: nine cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:45	Ekron with her townes and her villages,
Joshua 15:46	From Ekron, euen vnto the Sea, all that lyeth about Ashdod with their villages.
Joshua 15:47	Ashdod with her townes and her villages: Azzah with her townes and her villages, vnto the riuer of Egypt, and the great Sea was their coast.
Joshua 15:48	And in the mountaines were Shamir, and Iattir, and Socoh,
Joshua 15:49	And Dannah, and Kiriath-sannath (which is Debir)
Joshua 15:50	And Anab, and Ashtemoth, and Anim,
Joshua 15:51	And Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh: eleuen cities with their villages,
Joshua 15:52	Arab, and Dumah, and Eshean,
Joshua 15:53	And Ianum, and Beth-tappuah, and Aphekah,
Joshua 15:54	And Humtah, and Kiriath-arba, (which is Hebron) and Zior: nine cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:55	Maon, Carmel, and Ziph, and Iuttah,
Joshua 15:56	And Izreel, and Iokdeam, and Zanoah,
Joshua 15:57	Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah: ten cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:58	Halhul, Beth-zur, and Gedor,
Joshua 15:59	And Maarah, and Beth-anoth, and Eltekon: sixe cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:60	Kiriath-baal, which is Kiriath-iearim, and Rabbah: two cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:61	In the wildernes were Beth-arabah, Middin, and Secacah,
Joshua 15:62	And Nibshan, and the citie of salt, and Engedi: sixe cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:63	Neuerthelesse, the Iebusites that were the inhabitants of Ierusalem, could not the children of Iudah cast out, but the Iebusites dwell with the children of Iudah at Ierusalem vnto this day.
Joshua 16:1	And the lot fell to the children of Ioseph from Iorden by Iericho vnto the water of Iericho Eastward, and to the wildernes that goeth vp from Iericho by the mount Beth-el:
Joshua 16:2	And goeth out from Beth-el to Luz, and runneth along vnto the borders of Archiataroth,
Joshua 16:3	And goeth down Westward to the coast of Iaphleti, vnto the coast of Beth-horon the nether, and to Gezer: and the endes thereof are at the Sea.
Joshua 16:4	So the children of Ioseph, Manasseh and Ephraim tooke their inheritance.
Joshua 16:5	Also the borders of the children of Ephraim according to their families, euen the borders of their inheritance on the Eastside were Atroth-addar, vnto Beth-horon the vpper.
Joshua 16:6	And this border goeth out to the Sea vnto Michmethah on the Northside, and this border returneth Eastward vnto Taanathshiloh, and passeth it on the Eastside vnto Ianohah,
Joshua 16:7	And goeth downe from Ianohah to Ataroth, and Naarath, and commeth to Iericho, and goeth out at Iorden.
Joshua 16:8	And this border goeth from Tappuah Westward vnto the riuer Kanah, and the endes thereof are at the Sea: this is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Ephraim by their families.
Joshua 16:9	And the separate cities for the children of Ephraim were among the inheritance of the children of Manasseh: all the cities with their villages.
Joshua 16:10	And they cast not out the Canaanite that dwelt in Gezer, but the Canaanite dwelt among the Ephraimites vnto this day, and serued vnder tribute.
Joshua 17:1	This was also the lot of the tribe of Manasseh: for he was the first borne of Ioseph, to wit, of Machir the first borne of Manasseh, and the father of Gilead: nowe because he was a man of warre, he had Gilead and Bashan.
Joshua 17:2	And also of the rest of the sonnes of Manasseh by their families, euen of the sonnes of Abiezer, and of the sonnes of Helek, and of ye sonnes of Azriel, and of the sonnes of Shechem, and of the sonnes of Hepher, and of the sonnes of Shemida: these were the males of Manasseh, the sonne of Ioseph according to their families.
Joshua 17:3	But Zelophehad the sonne of Hephir, the sonne of Gilead, the sonne of Machir, ye sonne of Manasseh, had no sonnes, but daughters: and these are the names of his daughters, Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah and Tirzah:
Joshua 17:4	Which came before Eleazar the Priest, and before Ioshua the sonne of Nun, and before the princes, saying, The Lord commanded Moses to giue vs an inheritance among our brethren: therefore according to the commandement of the Lord he gaue them an inheritance among the brethren of their father.
Joshua 17:5	And there fell ten portions to Manasseh, beside the land of Gilead and Bashan, which is on the other side Iorden,
Joshua 17:6	Because the daughters of Manasseh did inherite among his sonnes: and Manassehs other sonnes had the land of Gilead.
Joshua 17:7	So the borders of Manasseh were from Asher to Michmethah that lieth before Shechem, and this border goeth on the right hand, euen vnto the inhabitants of En-tappuah.
Joshua 17:8	The land of Tappuah belonged to Manasseh, but Tappuah beside the border of Manasseh belongeth to the sonnes of Ephraim.
Joshua 17:9	Also this border goeth downe vnto the riuer Kanah Southward to the riuer: these cities of Ephraim are among the cities of Manasseh: and the border of Manasseh is on the Northside of the riuer, and the endes of it are at the Sea,
Joshua 17:10	The South perteyneth to Ephraim, and the North to Manasseh, and the Sea is his border: and they met together in Asher Northwarde, and in Issachar Eastward.
Joshua 17:11	And Manasseh had in Issachar and in Asher, Beth-shean, and her townes, and Ibleam, and her townes, and the inhabitants of Dor with ye townes thereof, and the inhabitants of En-dor with the townes thereof, and the inhabitants of Thaanach with her townes, and the inhabitants of Megiddo with the townes of the same, euen three countreis.
Joshua 17:12	Yet the children of Manasseh coulde not destroy those cities, but the Canaanites dwelled still in that land.
Joshua 17:13	Neuerthelesse, when the children of Israel were strong, they put the Canaanites vnder tribute, but cast them not out wholy.
Joshua 17:14	Then the children of Ioseph spake vnto Ioshua, saying, Why hast thou giuen me but one lot, and one portion to inherite, seeing I am a great people, for as much as the Lord hath blessed me hitherto?
Joshua 17:15	Ioshua then answered them, If thou be much people, get thee vp to the wood, and cut trees for thy selfe there in the lande of the Perizzites, and of the gyants, if mount Ephraim be too narowe for thee.
Joshua 17:16	Then the children of Ioseph saide, The mountaine will not be ynough for vs: and all the Canaanites that dwell in the lowe countrey haue charets of yron, aswell they in Beth-shean, and in the townes of the same, as they in the valley of Izreel.
Joshua 17:17	And Ioshua spake vnto the house of Ioseph, to Ephraim, and to Manasseh, saying, Thou art a great people, and hast great power, and shalt not haue one lot.
Joshua 17:18	Therefore the mountaine shall be thine: for it is a wood, and thou shalt cut it downe: and the endes of it shall be thine, and thou shalt cast out the Canaanites, though they haue yron charets, and though they be strong.
Joshua 18:1	And the whole Congregation of the children of Israel, came together at Shiloh: for they set vp the Tabernacle of the Congregation there, after the land was subiect vnto them.
Joshua 18:2	Nowe there remained among the children of Israel seuen tribes, to whom they had not deuided their inheritance.
Joshua 18:3	Therefore Ioshua said vnto the children of Israel, Howe long are ye so slacke to enter and possesse the land which the Lord God of your fathers hath giuen you?
Joshua 18:4	Giue from among you for euery tribe three men, that I may sende them, and that they may rise, and walke through the land, and distribute it according to their inheritance, and returne to me.
Joshua 18:5	And that they may deuide it vnto them into seuen parts, (Iudah shall abide in his coast at the South, and the house of Ioseph shall stand in their coastes at the North)
Joshua 18:6	Ye shall describe the land therefore into seuen partes, and shall bring them hither to me, and I will cast lottes for you here before the Lord our God.
Joshua 18:7	But the Leuites shall haue no part among you: for the Priesthood of the Lord is their inheritance: also Gad and Reuben and halfe the tribe of Manasseh haue receiued their inheritance beyond Iorden Eastward, which Moses the seruant of the Lord gaue them.
Joshua 18:8	Then the men arose, and went their way: and Ioshua charged them that went to describe the land, saying, Depart, and goe through the land, and describe it, and returne to me, that I may here cast lottes for you before the Lord in Shiloh.
Joshua 18:9	So the men departed, and passed through the lande, and described it by cities into seuen partes in a booke, and returned to Ioshua into the campe at Shiloh.
Joshua 18:10	Then Ioshua cast lottes for them in Shiloh before the Lord, and there Ioshua deuided the land vnto the children of Israel, according to their portions:
Joshua 18:11	And the lot of the tribe of the children of Beniamin came foorth according to their families, and the cost of their lot lay betweene the children of Iudah, and the children of Ioseph.
Joshua 18:12	And their coast on the Northside was from Iorden, and the border went vp to the side of Iericho on the Northpart, and went vp through the mountaines Westward, and the endes thereof are in the wildernesse of Beth-auen:
Joshua 18:13	And this border goeth along from thence to Luz, euen to the Southside of Luz (the same is Beth-el) and this border descendeth to Atroth-addar, neere the mount, that lyeth on the Southside of Beth-horon the nether.
Joshua 18:14	So the border turneth, and compasseth the corner of the Sea Southward, from the mount that lyeth before Beth-horon Southward: and the endes thereof are at Kiriath-baal (which is Kiriath-iearim) a citie of the children of Iudah: this is the Westquarter.
Joshua 18:15	And the Southquarter is from the ende of Kiriath-iearim, and this border goeth out Westward, and commeth to the fountaine of waters of Nephtoah.
Joshua 18:16	And this border descendeth at the ende of the mountaine, that lyeth before the valley of Ben-hinnom, which is in the valley of the gyants Northward, and descendeth into the valley of Hinnom by the side of Iebusi Southwarde, and goeth downe to En-rogel,
Joshua 18:17	And compasseth from the North, and goeth foorth to En-shemesh, and stretcheth to Geliloth, which is toward the going vp vnto Adummim, and goeth downe to the stone of Bohan the sonne of Reuben.
Joshua 18:18	So it goeth along to the side ouer against the plaine Northward, and goeth downe into the plaine.
Joshua 18:19	After, this border goeth along to the side of Beth-hoglah Northward: and the endes thereof, that is, of the border, reach to the point of the salt Sea Northward, and to the ende of Iorden Southward: this is the Southcoast.
Joshua 18:20	Also Iorden is the border of it on the Eastside: this is the inheritance of the children of Beniamin by the coastes thereof rounde about according to their families.
Joshua 18:21	Nowe the cities of the tribe of the children of Beniamin according to their families, are Iericho, and Beth-hoglah, and the valley of Keziz,
Joshua 18:22	And Beth-arabah, and Zemaraim, and Beth-el,
Joshua 18:23	And Auim, and Parah, and Ophrah,
Joshua 18:24	And Chephar, Ammonai, and Ophni, and Gaba: twelue cities with their villages.
Joshua 18:25	Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth,
Joshua 18:26	And Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah,
Joshua 18:27	And Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah,
Joshua 18:28	And Zela, Eleph, and Iebusi, (which is Ierusalem) Gibeath, and Kiriath: fourteene cities with their villages: this is the inheritance of the children of Beniamin according to their families.
Joshua 19:1	And the second lot came out to Simeon, euen for the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families: and their inheritance was in the middes of the inheritance of the children of Iudah.
Joshua 19:2	Nowe they had in their inheritance, Beersheba, and Sheba, and Moladah,
Joshua 19:3	And Hazur-shual, and Balah, and Azem,
Joshua 19:4	And Eltolad, and Bethul, and Hormah,
Joshua 19:5	And Ziklag, and Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susah,
Joshua 19:6	And Beth-lebaoth, and Sharuhen: thirteene cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:7	Ain, Remmon, and Ether, and Ashan: foure cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:8	And all the villages that were round about these cities, vnto Baalathbeer, and Ramath Southward: this is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families.
Joshua 19:9	Out of the portion of the children of Iudah came ye inheritance of the childre of Simeon: for the part of ye children of Iudah was too much for them: therefore the children of Simeon had their inheritance within their inheritance.
Joshua 19:10	Also the third lot arose for the children of Zebulun according to their families: and the coastes of their inheritance came to Sarid,
Joshua 19:11	And their border goeth vp Westwarde, euen to Maralah, and reacheth to Dabbasheth, and meeteth with the riuer that lyeth before Iokneam,
Joshua 19:12	And turneth from Sarid Eastward towarde the sunne rising vnto the border of Chisloth-tabor, and goeth out to Daberath, and ascendeth to Iaphia,
Joshua 19:13	And from thence goeth along Eastwarde towarde the sunne rising to Gittah-hepher to Ittah-kazin, and goeth foorth to Rimmon, and turneth to Neah.
Joshua 19:14	And this border compasseth it on ye North side to Hannathon, and the endes thereof are in the valley of Iiphtah-el,
Joshua 19:15	And Kattath, and Nahallal, and Shimron, and Idalah, and Beth-lehem: twelue cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:16	This is the inheritance of the children of Zebulun according to their families: that is, these cities and their villages.
Joshua 19:17	The fourth lot came out to Issachar, euen for the children of Issachar according to their families.
Joshua 19:18	And their coast was Izreelah, and Chesulloth, and Shunem,
Joshua 19:19	And Hapharaim, and Shion, and Anaharath,
Joshua 19:20	And Harabbith, and Kishion, and Abez,
Joshua 19:21	And Remeth, and En-gannim, and Enhaddah, and Beth-pazzez.
Joshua 19:22	And this coast reacheth to Tabor, and Shahazimath, and Beth-shemesh, and the endes of their coast reach to Iorden: sixteene cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:23	This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Issachar according to their families: that is, the cities, and their villages.
Joshua 19:24	Also the fift lot came out for the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families.
Joshua 19:25	And their coast was Helcath, and Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph,
Joshua 19:26	And Alammelech, and Amad, and Misheal, and came to Carmel Westward, and to Shihor Libnath,
Joshua 19:27	And turneth towarde the sunne rising to Beth-dagon, and commeth to Zebulun, and to the valley of Iiphtah-el, toward the Northside of Beth-emek, and Neiel, and goeth out on the left side of Cabul,
Joshua 19:28	And to Ebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah, vnto great Zidon.
Joshua 19:29	Then the coast turneth to Ramah and to the strong citie of Zor, and this border turneth to Hosah, and the ends thereof are at the Sea from Hebel to Achzib,
Joshua 19:30	Vmmah also and Aphek, and Rehob: two and twentie cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:31	This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families: that is, these cities and their villages.
Joshua 19:32	The sixt lot came out to the children of Naphtali, euen to the children of Naphtali according to their families.
Joshua 19:33	And their coast was from Heleph, and from Allon in Zaanannim, and Adaminekeb, and Iabneel, euen to Lakum, and the ends thereof are at Iorden.
Joshua 19:34	So this coast turneth Westwarde to Aznoth-tabor, and goeth out from thence to Hukkok, and reacheth to Zebulun on the Southside, and goeth to Asher on the Westside, and to Iudah by Iorden toward the sunne rising.
Joshua 19:35	And the strong cities are Ziddim, Zer, and Hammath, Rakkath, and Cinneereth,
Joshua 19:36	And Adamah, and Ramah, and Hazor,
Joshua 19:37	And Kedesh, and Edrei, and En-hazor,
Joshua 19:38	And Iron, and Migdal-el, Horem, and Beth-anah, and Beth-shemesh: nineteene cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:39	This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Naphtali according to their families: that is, the cities and their villages.
Joshua 19:40	The seuenth lot came out for the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families.
Joshua 19:41	And the coast of their inheritance was Zorah, and Eshtaol, and Ir-shemesh,
Joshua 19:42	And Shaalabbin, and Aiialon, and Ithlah,
Joshua 19:43	And Elon, and Temnathah, and Ekron,
Joshua 19:44	And Eltekeh, and Gibbethon, and Baalah,
Joshua 19:45	And Iehud, and Bene-berak, and Gath-rimmon,
Joshua 19:46	And Me-iarkon, and Rakkon, with the border that lieth before Iapho.
Joshua 19:47	But the coastes of the children of Dan fell out too litle for them: therefore the children of Dan went vp to fight against Leshem, and tooke it, and smote it with the edge of the sworde, and possessed it, and dwelt therein, and called Leshem, Dan after the name of Dan their father.
Joshua 19:48	This is the inheritance of the tribe of the childre of Dan according to their families: that is, these cities and their villages.
Joshua 19:49	When they had made an ende of deuiding the lande by the coastes thereof, then the children of Israel gaue an inheritance vnto Ioshua the sonne of Nun among them.
Joshua 19:50	According to the worde of the Lord they gaue him the citie which hee asked, euen Timnath-serah in mount Ephraim: and hee built the citie and dwelt therein.
Joshua 19:51	These are ye heritages which Eleazar the Priest, and Ioshua the sonne of Nun, and the chiefe fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel deuided by lot in Shiloh before the Lord at the doore of the Tabernacle of the Congregation: so they made an ende of deuiding the countrey.
Joshua 20:1	The Lord also spake vnto Ioshua, saying,
Joshua 20:2	Speake to the children of Israel, and say, Appoint you cities of refuge, whereof I spake vnto you by the hand of Moses,
Joshua 20:3	That the slaier that killeth any person by ignorance, and vnwittingly, may flee thither, and they shall be your refuge from the auenger of blood.
Joshua 20:4	And he that doeth flee vnto one of those cities, shall stand at the entring of the gate of the citie, and shall shewe his cause to the Elders of the citie: and they shall receiue him into the citie vnto them, and giue him a place, that hee may dwell with them.
Joshua 20:5	And if the auenger of blood pursue after him, they shall not deliuer the slaier into his hand because hee smote his neighbour ignorantly, neither hated he him before time:
Joshua 20:6	But hee shall dwell in that citie vntill hee stande before the Congregation in iudgement, or vntill the death of the hie Priest that shall be in those daies: then shall the slaier returne, and come vnto his owne citie, and vnto his owne house, euen vnto the citie from whence he fled.
Joshua 20:7	Then they appointed Kedesh in Galil in mount Naphtali, and Shechem in mount Ephraim, and Kiriath-arba, (which is Hebron) in the mountaine of Iudah.
Joshua 20:8	And on the other side Iorden toward Iericho Eastward, they appoynted Bezer in the wildernesse vpon the plaine, out of the tribe of Reuben, and Ramoth in Gilead, out of the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan, out of the tribe of Manasseh.
Joshua 20:9	These were the cities appoynted for all the children of Israel, and for the stranger that soiourned among them, that whosoeuer killed any person ignorantly, might flee thither, and not die by the hande of the auenger of blood, vntill hee stoode before the Congregation.
Joshua 21:1	Then came the principall fathers of the Leuites vnto Eleazar the Priest, and vnto Ioshua the sonne of Nun, and vnto the chiefe fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel,
Joshua 21:2	And spake vnto them at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, The Lord commanded by the hande of Moses, to giue vs cities to dwell in, with the suburbes thereof for our cattell.
Joshua 21:3	So the children of Israel gaue vnto the Leuites, out of their inheritance at the commandement of the Lord these cities with their suburbes.
Joshua 21:4	And the lot came out for the families of the Kohathites: and the children of Aaron ye Priest, which were of the Leuites, had by lot, out of the tribe of Iudah, and out of the tribe of Simeon, and out of the tribe of Beniamin thirteene cities.
Joshua 21:5	And the rest of the children of Kohath had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Ephraim, and out of the tribe of Dan, and out of the halfe tribe of Manasseh, tenne cities.
Joshua 21:6	Also the children of Gershon had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of ye tribe of Naphtali, and out of the halfe tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteene cities.
Joshua 21:7	The children of Merari according to their families had out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelue cities.
Joshua 21:8	So the children of Israel gaue by lot vnto the Leuites these cities with their suburbes, as the Lord had commanded by the hand of Moses.
Joshua 21:9	And they gaue out of the tribe of the children of Iudah, and out of the tribe of the children of Simeo, these cities which are here named.
Joshua 21:10	And they were the childrens of Aaron being of the families of the Kohathites, and of the sonnes of Leui, (for theirs was the first lot)
Joshua 21:11	So they gaue them Kiriath-arba of the father of Anok (which is Hebron) in the mountaine of Iudah, with the suburbes of the same round about it.
Joshua 21:12	(But the lande of the citie, and the villages thereof, gaue they to Caleb the sonne of Iephunneh to be his possession)
Joshua 21:13	Thus they gaue to the children of Aaron the Priest, a citie of refuge for the slaier, euen Hebron with her suburbes, and Libnah with her suburbes,
Joshua 21:14	And Iattir with her suburbes, and Eshtemoa, and her suburbes,
Joshua 21:15	And Holon with her suburbes, and Debir with her suburbes,
Joshua 21:16	And Ain with her suburbes, and Iuttah with her suburbes, Beth-shemesh with her suburbes: nine cities out of those two tribes.
Joshua 21:17	And out of the tribe of Beniamin they gaue Gibeon with her suburbes, Geba with her suburbes,
Joshua 21:18	Anathoth with her suburbes, and Almon with her suburbes: foure cities.
Joshua 21:19	All the cities of the children of Aaron Priests, were thirteene cities with their suburbes.
Joshua 21:20	But to the families of the children of Kohath of the Leuites, which were the rest of the children of Kohath (for the cities of their lot were out of the tribe of Ephraim)
Joshua 21:21	They gaue them the citie of refuge for the slaier, Shechem with her suburbes in mount Ephraim, and Gezer with her suburbes,
Joshua 21:22	And Kibzaim with her suburbs, and Bethhoron with her suburbes: foure cities.
Joshua 21:23	And out of the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh with her suburbes, Gibethon with her suburbes,
Joshua 21:24	Aiialon with her suburbes, Gath-rimmon with her suburbes: foure cities.
Joshua 21:25	And out of the halfe tribe of Manasseh, Tanach with her suburbes, and Gath-rimmon with her suburbes: two cities.
Joshua 21:26	All the cities for the other families of the children of Kohath were ten with their suburbes.
Joshua 21:27	Also vnto the children of Gershon of the families of the Leuites, they gaue out of the halfe tribe of Manasseh, the citie of refuge for the slaier, Golan in Bashan with her suburbes, and Beeshterah with her suburbes: two cities.
Joshua 21:28	And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishon with her suburbes, Dabereh with her suburbes,
Joshua 21:29	Iarmuth with her suburbes, En-gannim with her suburbes: foure cities.
Joshua 21:30	And out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal with her suburbes, Abdon with her suburbes,
Joshua 21:31	Helkah with her suburbs, and Rehob with her suburbes: foure cities.
Joshua 21:32	And out of the tribe of Naphtali, the citie of refuge for the slaier, Kedesh in Galil with her suburbes, and Hammoth-dor with her suburbes, and Kartan with her suburbes: three cities.
Joshua 21:33	Al the cities of the Gershonites according to their families, were thirteene cities with their suburbes.
Joshua 21:34	Also vnto the families of the children of Merari the rest of the Leuites, they gaue out of the tribe of Zebulun, Iokneam with her suburbs, and Kartah with her suburbes,
Joshua 21:35	Dimnah with her suburbes, Nahalal, with her suburbes: foure cities.
Joshua 21:36	And out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer with her suburbs, and Iahazah with her suburbs,
Joshua 21:37	Kedemoth with her suburbes, and Mephaath with her suburbes: foure cities.
Joshua 21:38	And out of the tribe of Gad they gaue for a citie of refuge for the slaier, Ramoth in Gilead with her suburbes, and Mahanaim with her suburbes,
Joshua 21:39	Heshbon with her suburbs, and Iazer with her suburbes: foure cities in all.
Joshua 21:40	So all the cities of the children of Merari according to their families (which were the rest of the families of the Leuites) were by their lot, twelue cities.
Joshua 21:41	And all the cities of the Leuites within the possession of the children of Israel, were eight and fourtie with their suburbes.
Joshua 21:42	These cities lay euery one seuerallie with their suburbes round about them: so were all these cities.
Joshua 21:43	So the Lord gaue vnto Israel all ye land, which hee had sworne to giue vnto their fathers: and they possessed it, and dwelt therein.
Joshua 21:44	Also the Lord gaue them rest rounde about according to all that hee had sworne vnto their fathers: and there stoode not a man of all their enemies before them: for the Lord deliuered all their enemies into their hand.
Joshua 21:45	There failed nothing of all the good things, which the Lord hath sayde vnto the house of Israel, but all came to passe.
Joshua 22:1	Then Ioshua called the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the halfe tribe of Manasseh,
Joshua 22:2	And sayd vnto them, Ye haue kept all that Moses the seruaunt of the Lord commanded you, and haue obeied my voice in all that I commanded you:
Joshua 22:3	You haue not forsaken your brethren this long season vnto this day, but haue diligently kept the commandement of the Lord your God.
Joshua 22:4	And nowe the Lord hath giuen rest vnto your brethren as he promised them: therefore nowe returne ye and goe to your tentes, to the land of your possession, which Moses the seruant of the Lord hath giuen you beyond Iorden.
Joshua 22:5	But take diligent heede, to doe the commandement and Lawe, which Moses the seruant of the Lord commanded you: that is, that ye loue the Lord your God, and walke in all his wayes, and keepe his commandements, and cleaue vnto him, and serue him with all your heart and with all your soule.
Joshua 22:6	So Ioshua blessed them and sent them away, and they went vnto their tents.
Joshua 22:7	Nowe vnto one halfe of the tribe of Manasseh Moses had giuen a possession in Bashan: and vnto the other halfe thereof gaue Ioshua among their brethren on this side Iorden Westwarde: therefore when Ioshua sent them away vnto their tents, and blessed them,
Joshua 22:8	Thus he spake vnto them, saying, Returne with much riches vnto your tents, and with a great multitude of cattell, with siluer and with golde, with brasse and with yron, and with great abundance of rayment: deuide the spoyle of your enemies with your brethren.
Joshua 22:9	So the children of Reuben, and the children of Gad, and halfe the tribe of Manasseh returned, and departed from the children of Israel from Shiloh (which is in the land of Canaan) to goe vnto the countrey of Gilead to the land of their possession, which they had obteyned, according to ye word of the Lord by the hand of Moses.
Joshua 22:10	And when they came vnto the borders of Iorden (which are in the land of Canaan) then the children of Reuben, and the children of Gad, and the halfe tribe of Manasseh, built there an altar by Iorden, a great altar to see to.
Joshua 22:11	When the children of Israel heard say, Beholde, the children of Reuben, and the children of Gad, and the halfe tribe of Manasseh haue built an altar in the forefront of the lande of Canaan vpon the borders of Iorden at the passage of the children of Israel:
Joshua 22:12	When the children of Israel heard it, then the whole Congregation of the children of Israel gathered them together at Shiloh to goe vp to warre against them.
Joshua 22:13	Then the children of Israel sent vnto the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to ye halfe tribe of Manasseh into the land of Gilead, Phinehas the sonne of Eleazar the Priest,
Joshua 22:14	And with him ten princes, of euery chiefe house a prince, according to all the tribes of Israel: for euery one was chiefe of their fathers housholde among the thousands of Israel.
Joshua 22:15	So they went vnto the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the halfe tribe of Manasseh, vnto the land of Gilead, and spake with them, saying,
Joshua 22:16	Thus saith the whole congregation of the Lord, What transgression is this that ye haue transgressed against the God of Israel, to turne away this day from the Lord, in that ye haue built you an altar for to rebell this day against the Lord?
Joshua 22:17	Haue we too litle for the wickednesse of Peor, whereof we are not clensed vnto this day, though a plague came vpon the Congregation of the Lord?
Joshua 22:18	Ye also are turned away this day from the Lord: and seeing ye rebell to day against ye Lord, euen to morowe he will be wroth with all the Congregation of Israel.
Joshua 22:19	Notwithstanding if the land of your possession be vncleane, come ye ouer vnto the land of the possession of the Lord, wherein the Lordes Tabernacle dwelleth, and take possession among vs: but rebell not against the Lord, nor rebell not against vs in building you an altar, beside the altar of the Lord our God.
Joshua 22:20	Did not Achan ye sonne of Zerah trespasse grieuously in the execrable thing, and wrath fell on all the Congregation of Israel? and this man alone perished not in his wickednesse.
Joshua 22:21	Then the children of Reuben and the children of Gad, and halfe the tribe of Manasseh answered, and saide vnto the heads ouer the thousands of Israel,
Joshua 22:22	The Lord God of gods, the Lord God of gods, he knoweth, and Israel himselfe shall know: if by rebellion, or by transgression against ye Lord we haue done it, saue thou vs not this day.
Joshua 22:23	If we haue built vs an altar to returne away from the Lord, either to offer thereon burnt offering, or meate offering, or to offer peace offerings thereon, let the Lord himselfe require it:
Joshua 22:24	And if we haue not rather done it for feare of this thing, saying, In time to come your children might say vnto our children, What haue ye to doe with the Lord God of Israel?
Joshua 22:25	For the Lord hath made Iorden a border betweene vs and you, ye children of Reuben, and of Gad: therefore ye haue no part in the Lord: so shall your children make our children cease from fearing the Lord.
Joshua 22:26	Therefore we said, We will nowe go about to make vs an altar, not for burnt offering, nor for sacrifice,
Joshua 22:27	But it shall be a witnesse betweene vs and you, and betweene our generations after vs, to execute the seruice of the Lord before him in our burnt offerings, and in our sacrifices, and in our peace offerings, and that your children should not say to our children in time to come, Ye haue no part in the Lord.
Joshua 22:28	Therefore said we, If so be that they should so say to vs or to our generations in time to come, then will we answere, Beholde the facion of the altar of the Lord, which our fathers made, not for burnt offering nor for sacrifice, but it is a witnesse betweene vs and you.
Joshua 22:29	God forbid, that we should rebell against the Lord, and turne this day away from the Lord to builde an altar for burnt offering, or for meate offering, or for sacrifice, saue the altar of the Lord our God, that is before his Tabernacle.
Joshua 22:30	And when Phinehas the Priest, and the princes of the Congregation and heads ouer the thousands of Israel which were with him, heard the wordes, that the children of Reuben, and children of Gad, and the children of Manasseh spake, they were well content.
Joshua 22:31	And Phinehas the sonne of Eleazar the Priest said vnto the children of Reuben and to the children of Gad, and to the children of Manasseh, This day we perceiue, that the Lord is among vs, because ye haue not done this trespasse against the Lord: nowe ye haue deliuered the children of Israel out of the hand of the Lord.
Joshua 22:32	Then Phinehas the sonne of Eleazar the Priest with the princes returned from the children of Reuben, and from the children of Gad, out of the land of Gilead, vnto the land of Canaan, to the children of Israel, and brought them answere.
Joshua 22:33	And the saying pleased the children of Israel: and the children of Israel blessed God, and minded not to goe against them in battell, for to destroy the land, wherein the children of Reuben, and Gad dwelt.
Joshua 22:34	Then the children of Reuben, and the children of Gad called the altar Ed: for it shall be a witnesse betweene vs, that the Lord is God.
Joshua 23:1	And a long season after that the Lord had giuen rest vnto Israel from all their enemies round about, and Ioshua was olde, and stricken in age,
Joshua 23:2	Then Ioshua called all Israel, and their Elders, and their heads, and their iudges, and their officers, and said vnto them, I am old, and stricken in age.
Joshua 23:3	Also ye haue seene all that the Lord your God hath done vnto al these nations before you, howe the Lord your God him selfe hath fought for you.
Joshua 23:4	Beholde, I haue deuided vnto you by lot these nations that remaine, to be an inheritance according to your tribes, from Iorden, with all the nations that I haue destroyed, euen vnto the great Sea Westward.
Joshua 23:5	And the Lord your God shall expell them before you, and cast them out of your sight, and ye shall possesse their land, as the Lord your God hath said vnto you.
Joshua 23:6	Be ye therefore of a valiant courage, to obserue and doe all that is written in the booke of the Lawe of Moses, that ye turne not therefrom to the right hand nor to the left,
Joshua 23:7	Neither companie with these nations: that is, with them which are left with you, neither make mention of the name of their gods, nor cause to sweare by them, neither serue them nor bowe vnto them:
Joshua 23:8	But sticke fast vnto the Lord your God, as ye haue done vnto this day.
Joshua 23:9	For ye Lord hath cast out before you great nations and mightie, and no man hath stand before your face hitherto.
Joshua 23:10	One man of you shall chase a thousand: for the Lord your God, he fighteth for you, as he hath promised you.
Joshua 23:11	Take good heede therefore vnto your selues, that ye loue the Lord your God.
Joshua 23:12	Els, if ye goe backe, and cleaue vnto the rest of these nations: that is, of them that remaine with you, and shall make marriages with them, and goe vnto them, and they to you,
Joshua 23:13	Knowe ye for certaine, that the Lord your God will cast out no more of these nations from before you: but they shall be a snare and destruction vnto you, and a whip on your sides, and thornes in your eyes, vntill ye perish out of this good land, which ye Lord your God hath giue you.
Joshua 23:14	And beholde, this day do I enter into the way of all ye world, and ye know in al your heartes and in all your soules, that nothing hath failed of all the good things which the Lord your God promised you, but all are come to passe vnto you: nothing hath failed thereof.
Joshua 23:15	Therefore as all good things are come vpon you, which the Lord your God promised you, so shall the Lord bring vpon you euery euill thing, vntill he haue destroyed you out of this good land, which ye Lord your God hath giue you.
Joshua 23:16	When ye shall transgresse the couenant of the Lord your God, which he commanded you, and shall goe and serue other gods, and bowe your selues to them, then shall the wrath of the Lord waxe hote against you, and ye shall perish quickely out of the good lande which he hath giuen you.
Joshua 24:1	And Ioshua assembled againe all the tribes of Israel to Shechem, and called the Elders of Israel, and their heades, and their iudges, and their officers, and they presented themselues before God.
Joshua 24:2	Then Ioshua said vnto all the people, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Your fathers dwelt beyond the flood in olde time, euen Terah the father of Abraham, and the father of Nachor, and serued other gods.
Joshua 24:3	And I tooke your father Abraham from beyond the flood, and brought him through all the land of Canaan, and multiplied his seede, and gaue him Izhak.
Joshua 24:4	And I gaue vnto Izhak, Iaakob and Esau: and I gaue vnto Esau mount Seir, to possesse it: but Iaakob and his children went downe into Egypt.
Joshua 24:5	I sent Moses also and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt: and when I had so done among them, I brought you out.
Joshua 24:6	So I brought your fathers out of Egypt, and ye came vnto the Sea, and the Egyptians pursued after your fathers with charets and horsemen vnto the red sea.
Joshua 24:7	Then they cryed vnto the Lord, and he put a darkenesse betweene you and the Egyptians, and brought the sea vpon them, and couered them: so your eyes haue seene what I haue done in Egypt also ye dwelt in the wildernesse a long season.
Joshua 24:8	After, I brought you into the land of the Amorites, which dwelt beyond Iorden, and they fought with you: but I gaue them into your hand, and ye possessed their countrey, and I destroyed them out of your sight.
Joshua 24:9	Also Balak the sonne of Zippor King of Moab arose and warred against Israel, and sent to call Balaam the sonne of Beor for to curse you,
Joshua 24:10	But I would not heare Balaam: therefore he blessed you, and I deliuered you out of his hand.
Joshua 24:11	And ye went ouer Iorden, and came vnto Iericho, and the men of Iericho fought against you, the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Girgashites, the Hiuites and the Iebusites, and I deliuered them into your hand.
Joshua 24:12	And I sent hornets before you, which cast them out before you, euen the two kings of the Amorites, and not with thy sword, nor with thy bow.
Joshua 24:13	And I haue giuen you a land, wherein ye did not labour, and cities which ye built not, and yee dwell in them, and eate of the vineyards and oliue trees, which yee planted not.
Joshua 24:14	Nowe therefore feare the Lord, and serue him in vprightnesse and in trueth, and put away the gods, which your fathers serued beyonde the flood and in Egypt, and serue the Lord.
Joshua 24:15	And if it seeme euill vnto you to serue the Lord, choose you this day whome yee will serue, whether the gods which your fathers serued (that were beyond the flood) or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwel: but I and mine house will serue the Lord.
Joshua 24:16	Then the people answered and saide, God forbid, that we shoulde forsake the Lord, to serue other gods.
Joshua 24:17	For the Lord our God, he brought vs and our fathers out of the lande of Egypt, from the house of bondage, and he did those great miracles in our sight, and preserued vs in all the way that we went, and among all the people through whome we came.
Joshua 24:18	And the Lord did cast out before vs all the people, euen the Amorites which dwelt in the lande: therefore will we also serue the Lord, for he is our God.
Joshua 24:19	And Ioshua saide vnto the people, Ye can not serue the Lord: for he is an holie God: he is a ielous God: hee will not pardon your iniquitie nor your sinnes.
Joshua 24:20	If yee forsake the Lord and serue strange gods, then he will returne and bring euill vpon you, and consume you, after that hee hath done you good.
Joshua 24:21	And the people saide vnto Ioshua, Nay, but we will serue the Lord.
Joshua 24:22	And Ioshua saide vnto the people, Yee are witnesses against your selues, that yee haue chosen you the Lord, to serue him: and they sayd, We are witnesses.
Joshua 24:23	Then put away nowe, saide he, the strange gods which are among you, and bowe your hearts vnto the Lord God of Israel.
Joshua 24:24	And ye people saide vnto Ioshua, The Lord our God wil we serue, and his voyce wil we obey.
Joshua 24:25	So Ioshua made a couenant with the people the same day, and gaue them an ordinance and lawe in Shechem.
Joshua 24:26	And Ioshua wrote these woordes in the booke of the Lawe of God, and tooke a great stone, and pitched it there vnder an oke that was in the Sanctuarie of the Lord.
Joshua 24:27	And Ioshua saide vnto all the people, Beholde, this stone shall be a witnesse vnto vs: for it hath heard all the wordes of the Lord which he spake with vs: it shall be therefore a witnesse against you, lest yee denie your God.
Joshua 24:28	Then Ioshua let the people depart, euery man vnto his inheritance.
Joshua 24:29	And after these things Ioshua the sonne of Nun, the seruaunt of the Lord died, being an hundreth and ten yeeres olde.
Joshua 24:30	And they buried him in ye border of his inheritance in Timnath-serah, which is in mount Ephraim, on the Northside of mount Gaash.
Joshua 24:31	And Israel serued the Lord all the daies of Ioshua, and all the daies of the Elders that ouerliued Ioshua, and which had knowen all the workes of the Lord that he had done for Israel.
Joshua 24:32	And the bones of Ioseph, which the children of Israel brought out of Egypt, buried they in Shechem in a parcell of ground which Iaakob bought of the sonnes of Hamor the father of Shechem, for an hundreth pieces of siluer, and the children of Ioseph had them in their inheritance.
Joshua 24:33	Also Eleazar the sonne of Aaron died, whome they buried in the hill of Phinehas his sonne, which was giuen him in mount Ephraim.

===== BOOK: Jude =====
Jude 1:1	IVde a seruaunt of Iesus Christ, and brother of Iames, to them which are called and sanctified of God the Father, and returned to Iesus Christ:
Jude 1:2	Mercie vnto you, and peace and loue be multiplied.
Jude 1:3	Beloued, when I gaue al diligece to write vnto you of the common saluation, it was needful for me to write vnto you to exhort you, that yee should earnestly contend for the maintenace of ye faith, which was once giuen vnto the Saintes.
Jude 1:4	For there are certaine men crept in, which were before of olde ordeined to this condemnation: vngodly men they are which turne the grace of our God into wantonnesse, and denie God the onely Lord, and our Lord Iesus Christ.
Jude 1:5	I wil therfore put you in remebrance, forasmuch as ye once knew this, how that the Lord, after that he had deliuered the people out of Egypt, destroied them afterward which beleeued not.
Jude 1:6	The Angels also which kept not their first estate, but left their owne habitation, hee hath reserued in euerlasting chaines vnder darkenesse vnto the iudgement of the great day.
Jude 1:7	As Sodom and Gomorrhe, and the cities about them, which in like maner as they did, committed fornication, and followed strange flesh, are set foorth for an ensample, and suffer the vengeance of eternall fire.
Jude 1:8	Likewise notwithstanding these sleepers also defile the flesh, and despise gouernment, and speake euill of them that are in authoritie.
Jude 1:9	Yet Michael the Archangell, when hee stroue against the deuill, and disputed about the body of Moses, durst not blame him with cursed speaking, but sayd, The Lord rebuke thee.
Jude 1:10	But these speake euill of those thinges, which they know not: and whatsoeuer things they know naturally, as beasts, which are without reason, in those things they corrupt them selues.
Jude 1:11	Wo be vnto them: for they haue followed the way of Cain, and are cast away by the deceit of Balaams wages, and perish in the gainsaying of Core.
Jude 1:12	These are rockes in your feasts of charitie when they feast with you, without al feare, feeding themselues: cloudes they are without water, caried about of windes, corrupt trees and without fruit, twise dead, and plucked vp by ye rootes.
Jude 1:13	They are the raging waues of the sea, foming out their owne shame: they are wandring starres, to whome is reserued the blackenesse of darkenesse for euer.
Jude 1:14	And Enoch also the seuenth from Adam, prophecied of such, saying, Beholde, the Lord commeth with thousands of his Saints,
Jude 1:15	To giue iudgement against al men, and to rebuke all the vngodly among them of all their wicked deeds, which they haue vngodly committed, and of all their cruel speakings, which wicked sinners haue spoken against him.
Jude 1:16	These are murmurers, complainers, walking after their owne lustes: Whose mouthes speake proud things, hauing mens persons in admiration, because of aduantage.
Jude 1:17	But, yee beloued, remember the wordes which were spoken before of the Apostles of our Lord Iesus Christ,
Jude 1:18	How that they told you that there should be mockers in ye last time, which should walke after their owne vngodly lustes.
Jude 1:19	These are they that separate them selues from other, naturall, hauing not the Spirit.
Jude 1:20	But, yee beloued, edifie your selues in your most holy faith, praying in the holy Ghost,
Jude 1:21	And keepe your selues in the loue of God, looking for the mercie of our Lord Iesus Christ, vnto eternall life.
Jude 1:22	And haue compassion of some, in putting difference:
Jude 1:23	And other saue with feare, pulling them out of the fire, and hate euen that garment which is spotted by the flesh.
Jude 1:24	Nowe vnto him that is able to keepe you, that ye fall not, and to present you faultlesse before the presence of his glorie with ioy,
Jude 1:25	That is, to God only wise, our Sauiour, be glorie, and maiestie, and dominion, and power, both nowe and for euer, Amen.

===== BOOK: Lamentations =====
Lamentations 1:1	Howe doeth the citie remaine solitarie that was full of people? she is as a widowe: she that was great among the nations, and princesse among the prouinces, is made tributarie.
Lamentations 1:2	She weepeth continually in the night, and her teares runne downe by her cheekes: among all her louers, she hath none to comfort her: all her friendes haue delt vnfaithfully with her, and are her enemies.
Lamentations 1:3	Iudah is caried away captiue because of affliction, and because of great seruitude: shee dwelleth among the heathen, and findeth no rest: all her persecuters tooke her in the straites.
Lamentations 1:4	The wayes of Zion lament, because no man commeth to the solemne feastes: all her gates are desolate: her Priests sigh: her virgins are discomfited, and she is in heauinesse.
Lamentations 1:5	Her aduersaries are the chiefe, and her enemies prosper: for the Lord hath afflicted her, for the multitude of her transgressions, and her children are gone into captiuitie before the enemie.
Lamentations 1:6	And from the daughter of Zion all her beautie is departed: her princes are become like harts that finde no pasture, and they are gone without strength before the pursuer.
Lamentations 1:7	Ierusalem remembred the dayes of her affliction, and of her rebellion, and all her pleasant things, that shee had in times past, when her people fell into the hande of the enemie, and none did helpe her: the aduersarie sawe her, and did mocke at her Sabbaths.
Lamentations 1:8	Ierusalem hath grieuously sinned, therefore shee is in derision: all that honoured her, despise her, because they haue seene her filthinesse: yea, she sigheth and turneth backeward.
Lamentations 1:9	Her filthinesse is in her skirts: she remembred not her last ende, therefore she came downe wonderfully: she had no comforter: O Lord, behold mine affliction: for the enemie is proud.
Lamentations 1:10	The enemie hath stretched out his hande vpon al her pleasant things: for she hath seene the heathen enter into her Sanctuarie, whom thou diddest commande, that they shoulde not enter into thy Church.
Lamentations 1:11	All her people sigh and seeke their bread: they haue giuen their pleasant thinges for meate to refresh the soule: see, O Lord, and consider: for I am become vile.
Lamentations 1:12	Haue ye no regarde, all yee that passe by this way? behold, and see, if there be any sorowe like vnto my sorowe, which is done vnto mee, wherewith the Lord hath afflicted me in the day of his fierce wrath.
Lamentations 1:13	From aboue hath hee sent fire into my bones, which preuaile against them: he hath spred a net for my feete, and turned me backe: hee hath made me desolate, and daily in heauinesse.
Lamentations 1:14	The yoke of my transgressions is bounde vpon his hand: they are wrapped, and come vp vpon my necke: hee hath made my strength to fall: the Lord hath deliuered me into their hands, neither am I able to rise vp.
Lamentations 1:15	The Lord hath troden vnder foote all my valiant men in the middes of me: he hath called an assembly against me to destroy my yong men: the Lord hath troden the wine presse vpon the virgine the daughter of Iudah.
Lamentations 1:16	For these things I weepe: mine eye, euen mine eye casteth out water, because the comforter that should refresh my soule, is farre from me: my children are desolate, because the enemie preuailed.
Lamentations 1:17	Zion stretcheth out her handes, and there is none to comfort her: the Lord hath appoynted the enemies of Iaakob rounde about him: Ierusalem is as a menstruous woman in the middes of them.
Lamentations 1:18	The Lord is righteous: for I haue rebelled against his commandement: heare, I pray you, all people, and behold my sorowe: my virgins and my yong men are gone into captiuitie.
Lamentations 1:19	I called for my louers, but they deceiued me: my Priestes and mine Elders perished in the citie while they sought their meate to refresh their soules.
Lamentations 1:20	Behold, O Lord, howe I am troubled: my bowels swell: mine heart is turned within me, for I am ful of heauinesse: the sword spoyleth abroad, as death doeth at home.
Lamentations 1:21	They haue heard that I mourne, but there is none to comfort mee: all mine enemies haue heard of my trouble, and are glad, that thou hast done it: thou wilt bring the day, that thou hast pronounced, and they shalbe like vnto me.
Lamentations 1:22	Let all their wickednes come before thee: do vnto them, as thou hast done vnto me, for all my transgressions: for my sighes are many, and mine heart is heauy.
Lamentations 2:1	How hath the Lord darkened the daughter of Zion in his wrath! and hath cast downe from heauen vnto the earth the beautie of Israel, and remembred not his footestoole in the day of his wrath!
Lamentations 2:2	The Lord hath destroyed al the habitations of Iaakob, and not spared: he hath throwen downe in his wrath ye strong holds of the daughter of Iudah: he hath cast the downe to ye ground: he hath polluted the kingdome and the princes thereof.
Lamentations 2:3	Hee hath cut off in his fierce wrath all the horne of Israel: he hath drawen backe his right hand from before the enemie, and there was kindled in Iaakob like a flame of fire, which deuoured rounde about.
Lamentations 2:4	He hath bent his bowe like an enemie: his right hand was stretched vp as an aduersarie, and slewe al that was pleasant to the eye in the tabernacle of the daughter of Zion: he powred out his wrath like fire.
Lamentations 2:5	The Lord was as an enemie: he hath deuoured Israel, and consumed all his palaces: hee hath destroyed his strong holdes, and hath increased in the daughter of Iudah lamentation and mourning.
Lamentations 2:6	For hee hath destroyed his Tabernacle, as a garden, hee hath destroyed his Congregation: the Lord hath caused the feastes and Sabbathes to bee forgotten in Zion, and hath despised in the indignation of his wrath the King and the Priest.
Lamentations 2:7	The Lord hath forsaken his altar: he hath abhorred his Sanctuarie: he hath giue into the hand of the enemie the walles of her palaces: they haue made a noyse in the House of the Lord, as in the day of solemnitie.
Lamentations 2:8	The Lord hath determined to destroy the wall of the daughter of Zion: hee stretched out a lyne: hee hath not withdrawen his hande from destroying: therefore hee made the rampart and the wall to lament: they were destroyed together.
Lamentations 2:9	Her gates are sunke to the grounde: he hath destroyed and broken her barres: her King and her princes are among the Gentiles: the Lawe is no more, neither can her Prophets receiue any vision from the Lord.
Lamentations 2:10	The Elders of the daughter of Zion sit vpon the grounde, and keepe silence: they haue cast vp dust vpon their heades: they haue girded them selues with sackecloth: the virgines of Ierusalem hang downe their heades to the ground.
Lamentations 2:11	Mine eyes doe saile with teares: my bowels swell: my liuer is powred vpon the earth, for the destruction of the daughter of my people, because the children and sucklings swoone in the streetes of the citie.
Lamentations 2:12	They haue sayd to their mothers, Where is bread and drinke? when they swooned as the wounded in the streetes of the citie, and whe they gaue vp the ghost in their mothers bosome.
Lamentations 2:13	What thing shall I take to witnesse for thee? what thing shall I compare to thee, O daughter Ierusalem? what shall I liken to thee, that I may comfort thee, O virgine daughter Zion? for thy breach is great like ye sea: who can heale thee?
Lamentations 2:14	Thy Prophets haue looked out vayne, and foolish things for thee, and they haue not discouered thine iniquitie, to turne away thy captiuitie, but haue looked out for thee false prophesies, and causes of banishment.
Lamentations 2:15	All that passe by the way, clap their hands at thee: they hisse and wagge their head vpon the daughter Ierusalem, saying, Is this the citie that men call, The perfection of beautie, and the ioye of the whole earth?
Lamentations 2:16	All thine enemies haue opened their mouth against thee: they hisse and gnashe the teeth, saying, Let vs deuoure it: certainely this is the day that we looked for: we haue founde and seene it.
Lamentations 2:17	The Lord hath done that which he had purposed: he hath fulfilled his worde that he had determined of old time: he hath throwen downe, and not spared: hee hath caused thine enemie to reioyce ouer thee, and set vp the horne of thine aduersaries.
Lamentations 2:18	Their heart cryed vnto the Lord, O wall of the daughter Zion, let teares runne downe like a riuer, day and night: take thee no rest, neither let the apple of thine eye cease.
Lamentations 2:19	Arise, cry in the night: in the beginning of the watches powre out thine heart like water before the face of the Lord: lift vp thine handes towarde him for the life of thy yong children, that faint for hunger in the corners of all the streetes.
Lamentations 2:20	Beholde, O Lord, and consider to whome thou hast done thus: shall the women eate their fruite, and children of a spanne long? shall the Priest and the Prophet be slaine in the Sanctuarie of the Lord?
Lamentations 2:21	The yong and the olde lie on the ground in the streetes: my virgins and my yong men are fallen by the sworde: thou hast slaine them in the day of thy wrath: thou hast killed and not spared.
Lamentations 2:22	Thou hast called as in a solemne daye my terrours rounde about, so that in the day of the Lordes wrath none escaped nor remained: those that I haue nourished and brought vp, hath mine enemie consumed.
Lamentations 3:1	I am the man, that hath seene affliction in the rod of his indignation.
Lamentations 3:2	He hath ledde mee, and brought me into darkenes, but not to light.
Lamentations 3:3	Surely he is turned against me: he turneth his hand against me all the day.
Lamentations 3:4	My flesh and my skinne hath he caused to waxe olde, and he hath broken my bones.
Lamentations 3:5	He hath builded against me, and compassed me with gall, and labour.
Lamentations 3:6	He hath set me in darke places, as they that be dead for euer.
Lamentations 3:7	He hath hedged about mee, that I cannot get out: he hath made my chaines heauy.
Lamentations 3:8	Also when I cry and showte, hee shutteth out my prayer.
Lamentations 3:9	He hath stopped vp my wayes with hewen stone, and turned away my paths.
Lamentations 3:10	He was vnto me as a beare lying in waite, and as a Lion in secret places.
Lamentations 3:11	He hath stopped my wayes, and pulled me in pieces: he hath made me desolate.
Lamentations 3:12	He hath bent his bow and made me a marke for the arrow.
Lamentations 3:13	Hee caused the arrowes of his quiuer to enter into my reines.
Lamentations 3:14	I was a derision to all my people, and their song all the day.
Lamentations 3:15	He hath filled me with bitternes, and made me drunken with wormewood.
Lamentations 3:16	He hath also broken my teeth with stones, and hath couered me with ashes.
Lamentations 3:17	Thus my soule was farre off from peace: I forgate prosperitie,
Lamentations 3:18	And I saide, My strength and mine hope is perished from the Lord,
Lamentations 3:19	Remembring mine affliction, and my mourning, the wormewood and the gall.
Lamentations 3:20	My soule hath them in remembrance, and is humbled in me.
Lamentations 3:21	I consider this in mine heart: therefore haue I hope.
Lamentations 3:22	It is the Lordes mercies that wee are not consumed, because his compassions faile not.
Lamentations 3:23	They are renued euery morning: great is thy faithfulnesse.
Lamentations 3:24	The Lord is my portion, sayth my soule: therefore wil I hope in him.
Lamentations 3:25	The Lord is good vnto them, that trust in him, and to the soule that seeketh him.
Lamentations 3:26	It is good both to trust, and to waite for the saluation of the Lord.
Lamentations 3:27	It is good for a man that he beare the yoke in his youth.
Lamentations 3:28	He sitteth alone, and keepeth silence, because he hath borne it vpon him.
Lamentations 3:29	He putteth his mouth in the dust, if there may be hope.
Lamentations 3:30	Hee giueth his cheeke to him that smiteth him: he is filled full with reproches.
Lamentations 3:31	For the Lord will not forsake for euer.
Lamentations 3:32	But though he sende affliction, yet will he haue compassion according to the multitude of his mercies.
Lamentations 3:33	For he doeth not punish willingly, nor afflict the children of men,
Lamentations 3:34	In stamping vnder his feete all the prisoners of the earth,
Lamentations 3:35	In ouerthrowing the right of a man before the face of the most high,
Lamentations 3:36	In subuerting a man in his cause: the Lord seeth it not.
Lamentations 3:37	Who is he then that sayth, and it commeth to passe, and the Lord commandeth it not?
Lamentations 3:38	Out of the mouth of the most high proceedeth not euill and good?
Lamentations 3:39	Wherefore then is the liuing man sorowfull? man suffreth for his sinne.
Lamentations 3:40	Let vs search and try our wayes, and turne againe to the Lord.
Lamentations 3:41	Let vs lift vp our hearts with our handes vnto God in the heauens.
Lamentations 3:42	We haue sinned, and haue rebelled, therefore thou hast not spared.
Lamentations 3:43	Thou hast couered vs with wrath, and persecuted vs: thou hast slaine and not spared.
Lamentations 3:44	Thou hast couered thy selfe with a cloude, that our prayer should not passe through.
Lamentations 3:45	Thou hast made vs as the ofscouring and refuse in the middes of the people.
Lamentations 3:46	All our enemies haue opened their mouth against vs.
Lamentations 3:47	Feare, and a snare is come vpon vs with desolation and destruction.
Lamentations 3:48	Mine eye casteth out riuers of water, for the destruction of the daughter of my people.
Lamentations 3:49	Mine eye droppeth without stay and ceaseth not,
Lamentations 3:50	Till the Lord looke downe, and beholde from heauen.
Lamentations 3:51	Mine eye breaketh mine heart because of all the daughters of my citie.
Lamentations 3:52	Mine enemies chased me sore like a birde, without cause.
Lamentations 3:53	They haue shut vp my life in the dungeon, and cast a stone vpon me.
Lamentations 3:54	Waters flowed ouer mine head, then thought I, I am destroyed.
Lamentations 3:55	I called vpon thy Name, O Lord, out of the lowe dungeon.
Lamentations 3:56	Thou hast heard my voyce: stoppe not thine eare from my sigh and from my cry.
Lamentations 3:57	Thou drewest neere in the day that I called vpon thee: thou saydest, Feare not.
Lamentations 3:58	O Lord, thou hast maintained the cause of my soule, and hast redeemed my life.
Lamentations 3:59	O Lord, thou hast seene my wrong, iudge thou my cause.
Lamentations 3:60	Thou hast seene all their vengeance, and all their deuises against me.
Lamentations 3:61	Thou hast heard their reproch, O Lord, and all their imaginations against me:
Lamentations 3:62	The lippes also of those that rose against me, and their whispering against me continually.
Lamentations 3:63	Behold, their sitting downe and their rising vp, how I am their song.
Lamentations 3:64	Giue them a recompence, O Lord, according to the worke of their handes.
Lamentations 3:65	Giue them sorow of heart, euen thy curse to them.
Lamentations 3:66	Persecute with wrath and destroy them from vnder the heauen, O Lord.
Lamentations 4:1	How is the golde become so dimme? the most fine golde is changed, and the stones of the Sanctuarie are scattered in the corner of euery streete.
Lamentations 4:2	The noble men of Zion coparable to fine golde, howe are they esteemed as earthen pitchers, euen the worke of the handes of the potter!
Lamentations 4:3	Euen the dragons draw out the breastes, and giue sucke to their yong, but the daughter of my people is become cruell like the ostriches in the wildernesse.
Lamentations 4:4	The tongue of the sucking childe cleaueth to the roofe of his mouth for thirst: the yong children aske bread, but no man breaketh it vnto them.
Lamentations 4:5	They that did feede delicately, perish in the streetes: they that were brought vp in skarlet, embrace the dongue.
Lamentations 4:6	For the iniquitie of the daughter of my people is become greater then the sinne of Sodom, that was destroyed as in a moment, and none pitched campes against her.
Lamentations 4:7	Her Nazarites were purer then the snowe, and whiter then ye milke: they were more ruddie in bodie, then the redde precious stones; they were like polished saphir.
Lamentations 4:8	Nowe their visage is blacker then a cole: they can not knowe them in the streetes: their skinne cleaueth to their bones: it is withered like a stocke.
Lamentations 4:9	They that be slaine with the sword are better, then they that are killed with hunger: for they fade away as they were striken through for the fruites of the fielde.
Lamentations 4:10	The hands of the pitifull women haue sodden their owne children, which were their meate in the destruction of the daughter of my people.
Lamentations 4:11	The Lord hath accomplished his indignation: he hath powred out his fierce wrath, he hath kindled a fire in Zion, which hath deuoured the foundations thereof.
Lamentations 4:12	The Kings of the earth, and all the inhabitants of the world would not haue beleeued that the aduersarie and the enemie should haue entred into the gates of Ierusalem:
Lamentations 4:13	For the sinnes of her Prophets, and the iniquities of her Priests, that haue shed the blood of the iust in the middes of her.
Lamentations 4:14	They haue wandred as blinde men in the streetes, and they were polluted with blood, so that they would not touch their garments.
Lamentations 4:15	But they cried vnto them, Depart, ye polluted, depart, depart, touch not: therefore they fled away, and wandered: they haue sayd among the heathen, They shall no more dwell there.
Lamentations 4:16	The anger of the Lord hath scattered them, he will no more regard them: they reuerenced not the face of the Priestes, nor had compassion of the Elders.
Lamentations 4:17	Whiles we waited for our vaine helpe, our eyes failed: for in our waiting we looked for a nation that could not saue vs.
Lamentations 4:18	They hunt our steppes that we cannot goe in our streetes: our ende is neere, our dayes are fulfilled, for our ende is come.
Lamentations 4:19	Our persecuters are swifter then the eagles of the heauen: they pursued vs vpon the mountaines, and layed waite for vs in the wildernes.
Lamentations 4:20	The breath of our nostrels, the Anoynted of the Lord was taken in their nets, of whome we sayde, Vnder his shadowe we shalbe preserued aliue among the heathen.
Lamentations 4:21	Reioyce and be glad, O daughter Edom, that dwellest in the lande of Vz, the cuppe also shall passe through vnto thee: thou shalt be drunken and vomit.
Lamentations 4:22	Thy punishment is accomplished, O daughter Zion: he will no more carie thee away into captiuitie, but he will visite thine iniquitie, O daughter Edom, he wil discouer thy sinnes.
Lamentations 5:1	Remember, O Lord, what is come vpon vs: consider, and behold our reproche.
Lamentations 5:2	Our inheritance is turned to the strangers, our houses to the aliants.
Lamentations 5:3	We are fatherles, euen without father, and our mothers are as widowes.
Lamentations 5:4	Wee haue drunke our water for money, and our wood is solde vnto vs.
Lamentations 5:5	Our neckes are vnder persecution: we are wearie, and haue no rest.
Lamentations 5:6	We haue giuen our handes to the Egyptians, and to Asshur, to be satisfied with bread.
Lamentations 5:7	Our fathers haue sinned, and are not, and we haue borne their iniquities.
Lamentations 5:8	Seruants haue ruled ouer vs, none would deliuer vs out of their hands.
Lamentations 5:9	Wee gate our bread with the perill of our liues, because of the sword of the wildernesse.
Lamentations 5:10	Our skinne was blacke like as an ouen because of the terrible famine.
Lamentations 5:11	They defiled the women in Zion, and the maydes in the cities of Iudah.
Lamentations 5:12	The princes are hanged vp by their hande: the faces of the elders were not had in honour.
Lamentations 5:13	They tooke the yong men to grinde, and the children fell vnder the wood.
Lamentations 5:14	The Elders haue ceased from the gate and the yong men from their songs.
Lamentations 5:15	The ioy of our heart is gone, our daunce is turned into mourning.
Lamentations 5:16	The crowne of our head is fallen: wo nowe vnto vs, that we haue sinned.
Lamentations 5:17	Therefore our heart is heauy for these things, our eyes are dimme,
Lamentations 5:18	Because of the mountaine of Zion which is desolate: the foxes runne vpon it.
Lamentations 5:19	But thou, O Lord, remainest for euer: thy throne is from generation to generation.
Lamentations 5:20	Wherefore doest thou forget vs for euer, and forsake vs so long time?
Lamentations 5:21	Turne thou vs vnto thee, O Lord, and we shalbe turned: renue our dayes as of olde.
Lamentations 5:22	But thou hast vtterly reiected vs: thou art exceedingly angry against vs.
